[17 (2025) 100518](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccst.2025.100518)


Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

# & Carbon Capture Science Technology


[journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ccst](https://www.elsevier.com/locate/ccst)


Full Length Article
## Techno-economic analysis of packed bed and structured adsorbent for direct air capture

Paul de Joannis [a][,][b][,][*], Christophe Castel [b], Mohamed Kanniche [a], Eric Favre [b], Olivier Authier [a]

a _EDF R&D, 6 quai Watier, Chatou 78400, France_
b _Universit_ ´ _e de Lorraine, CNRS, LRGP, 1 rue Grandville, Nancy F-54000, France_



A R T I C L E I N F O


_Keywords:_
Direct air capture
DAC
Adsorption
Techno-economic analysis
Structured sorbent


**1.** **Introduction**



A B S T R A C T


This study investigates a direct air capture (DAC) process using a solid-DAC S-VTSA (steam-assisted vacuum
thermal swing adsorption) process. A commercially available sorbent, commonly used in packed bed configu­
rations, is selected as the benchmark sorbent, while a monolithic geometry is also examined to assess its potential
performance. The process is modelled using Aspen Adsorption and incorporates physico-chemical data in DAC
environmental conditions, including binary isotherms under humid condition. In a reference case comparing the
two geometries, the packed bed exhibits higher productivity (2.4 kgCO2/(h.m [3] )), while the monolith achieves
1.2 kgCO2/(h.m [3] ). However, the monolith allows for a significant reduction in pressure drop and associated fan
work by about two orders of magnitude. These findings highlight the trade-off between productivity in favor of
packed bed and energy requirement in favor of monolithic design. A sensitivity analysis is then conducted on
various environmental and process parameters such as sorbent and bed dimension, air velocity, temperature and
humidity, adsorption/desorption loading, mass transfer kinetic, and regeneration pressure, temperature, and
steam flowrate. Detailed techno-economic analysis, using Aspen Process Economic Analyzer software for capital
cost estimation, is performed at capture scale of 100 ktCO2/yr, with capture costs higher than 1500 €/tCO2.



Climate change is increasingly becoming a critical issue for the Earth,
mainly due to the increase in greenhouse gases, and more specifically
CO2, in the atmosphere. Recently, carbon dioxide removal (CDR) solu­
tions, which involve extracting CO2 from the air and storing it in
geologic storage, have gained significant attention to reduce atmo­
spheric CO2 (Energy Transitions Commission, 2022; European Com­
mission, 2021). Unlike point-source capture, CDR decouples CO2
capture from emission sources, eliminating the need to retrofit existing
CO2-emitting plants. This makes CDR particularly valuable for
hard-to-abate sectors with distributed CO2 emissions (no point source)
such as agriculture, shipping, and aviation.

Among CDR solutions, direct air capture (DAC) has emerged as a
promising solution in recent years to mitigate climate change (Bloch
et al., 2022; De Temmerman and de Rochette, 2023; International En­
ergy Agency, 2022). DAC process involves capturing CO2 directly from
the atmosphere and either storing it securely or converting it into
valuable products. Although the concept of DAC was introduced by
Lackner et al. in the late 1990s, recent technological advancements have


 - Corresponding author at: EDF R&D, 6 quai Watier, Chatou 78400, France.
_E-mail address:_ [paul.de-joannis-de-verclos@edf.fr](mailto:paul.de-joannis-de-verclos@edf.fr) (P. de Joannis).



significantly enhanced its feasibility (Bisotti et al., 2024; Lackner et al.,
1999).

One of the primary challenges for DAC is the high cost of capturing
CO2 from the atmosphere, which ranges from 94 $/tCO2 in optimistic
scenarios to over 1000 $/tCO2 (de Joannis et al., 2025; International
Energy Agency, 2022; Keith et al., 2018; Sievert et al., 2024; Valentine
et al., 2022a, 2022b). Despite this, recent studies indicate that the cost of
DAC is on a downward trend and is expected to continue decreasing as
technology advances and economies of scale are realized (International
Energy Agency, 2022). Additionally, the ability of DAC to generate
valuable products, such as synthetic fuels or construction materials,
could help mitigate some of these costs (Kiani et al., 2021). Moreover,
the need for low-carbon and dispatchable energy further underscores
the importance of advancing DAC technologies.

Industrial development of DAC processes predominantly relies on
absorption and adsorption technologies (Gebald, 2014; Keith et al.,
2018; Wurzbacher, 2015). However, innovative separation techniques
utilizing electrochemistry and membranes are also emerging (Castel
et al., 2021; Chevrel et al., 2025; Hemmatifar et al., 2022; Voskian and
Hatton, 2019). There is a growing interest in advanced DAC separation



[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccst.2025.100518](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccst.2025.100518)
Received 25 June 2025; Received in revised form 4 September 2025; Accepted 6 September 2025

Available online 7 September 2025
2772-6568/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE). This is an open access article under the CC BY
[license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



methods among academic researchers, start-ups, and industrial stake­
holders (Abdullatif et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024). Each technique
presents advantages and limitations, but more work is still needed to
scale-up processes to enable achieving International Energy Agency’s
_Net Zero Scenario_ target of 1 GtCO2/yr in 2050 (International Energy
Agency, 2020).

Commercial adsorption-based DAC plants currently running are the
most widely deployed with the most feedback (Climeworks, 2024; In­
ternational Energy Agency, 2022). Enhancing energy efficiency,
increasing overall capacity, and reducing costs are the main challenges
to overcome. Development of new materials (i.e. sorbent) for capturing
CO2 at very low partial pressure (~40 Pa) is actively studied in the
literature, including mainly amine-functionalized materials, zeolites,
metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), metal-based materials and silicas
(Chuah et al., 2025). Because of chemisorption, functionalized adsor­
bents (mainly with amines) exhibit generally better adsorption CO2
uptake (molCO2/kg) (Low et al., 2022). Also, DAC sorbent must be se­
lective and be resistant to ambient conditions, such as air temperature,
air humidity and other air constituents (i.e. oxidation, competitive
adsorption and potential impurities).

Binary isotherms with CO2 in presence of water are required to un­
derstand the air humidity effect on CO2 uptake but remain rarely
investigated. Water can compete with CO2, occupying the same binding
sites (i.e. competitive adsorption) or can increases the CO2 uptake (i.e.
synergetic adsorption). Regardless of the situation, adsorbed H2O must
be desorbed during regeneration, requiring heating energy, sweeping
and/or vacuum. Competitive adsorption of water with CO2 could be a
bottleneck when the humidity in air reduces the CO2 uptake compared
to dry condition, as it is the case with zeolite 13X for DAC (physisorbent)
which CO2 uptake is highly affected by water (Ahmed et al., 2024; Wang
and LeVan, 2010). In case of amine binding sites, the CO2 uptake is
enhanced by the presence of water (Chimani et al., 2024; Gebald et al.,
2014; Low et al., 2022; Schellevis, 2023; Young et al., 2021).
Amine-functionalized adsorbents are the most common sorbent studied,
and can be regenerated by TSA (temperature swing adsorption) or VTSA
(vacuum thermal swing adsorption) processes (Qiu et al., 2024).

In order to develop a DAC adsorption model with amine adsorbent,
pure and binary component isotherms of CO2 and other air constituents
are required. Literature exhibits mainly pure CO2 and H2O isotherms,
with a lack of binary isotherms. A rigorous model development requires
sorbent physico-chemical properties (i.e. pure and binary isotherms,
mass transfer coefficients, densities, porosities, heat capacities, heat of
adsorption, and heat transfer coefficient) (Low et al., 2022). The avail­
ability of CO2 mass transfer kinetic data from bulk gas to adsorption sites
is of critical importance for the development of process models, as these
data reflect the kinetics of DAC system and have a direct impact on
productivity. However, such data remain scarce in the literature (Low
et al., 2022). Lewatit VP OC 1065 (hereinafter referred to as Lewatit), a
commercial macroporous polymeric, amine-functionalized sorbent in
spherical bead form with polystyrenedivinylbenzene copolymer as
support and primary benzyl amines as functional groups, exhibits
interesting CO2 uptake in air conditions (Schellevis et al., 2020; Young
et al., 2021). Lewatit benefits from pure and binary isotherms of air
constituents and physicochemical properties available in the literature
required for process modeling, especially CO2 uptake in the presence of
water (Bos et al., 2019; Chimani et al., 2024; Driessen et al., 2020; Low
et al., 2025, 2023; Schellevis et al., 2021; Schellevis, 2023; Sonnleitner
et al., 2018; Veneman et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2022; Young et al., 2021).
Isotherms experimental measurement by Young et al. shows high af­
finity of Lewatit with CO2 and enhanced CO2 uptake in the presence of
humidity (Young et al., 2021). At 25 [◦] C, the CO2 uptake is about 1
molCO2/kg in dry condition and about 1.5 molCO2/kg at a relative
humidity of 0.5, showing an enhancement factor of 1.5 between dry and
wet conditions.

CO2 is very diluted in the air (0.04%), which requires the treatment
of large quantities of air in DAC process. At 20 [◦] C, only about 0.8 g of



CO2 are present in 1 m [3 ] of air, compared to about 220 g of CO2 in 1 m [3 ] of
12%CO2 flue gas. There is therefore a challenge on the energy cost of
moving large quantities of air through the adsorption bed. Packed beds
filled with pellets have been for long the preferred design for adsorption
separation processes due to many reasons, such as their ease of pro­
cessing, costs, good flow distributions, ease to handle (Born et al., 2024).
The packed bed pressure drop primarily depends on the gas velocity and
pellet size. Higher velocity and smaller pellet lead to higher pressure
drop. This pressure drop generally leads to excessive power consump­
tion of the fans when air velocity is about meter per second. Deschamps
et al. studied a model considering a module scale of bed height of 1.78 m
and diameter of 1.8 m (1 tonne of sorbent) filled with 7.2 mm diameter
pellet (Deschamps et al., 2022). With a superficial air velocity of about
0.7 m/s, the fan work reaches 3.4 MWh/tCO2. There is therefore a
growing interest in optimized designs with lower pressure drop, while
maintaining similar productivities.

Structured adsorbent in the shape of monolith, laminate or foam are
gaining interest because of potential reduction of pressure drop (Akhtar
and Kaiser, 2024; Born et al., 2024; Grossmann et al., 2021; Pour et al.,
2024; Rezaei and Webley, 2010, 2009; Stampi-Bombelli et al., 2024;
Stampi-Bombelli and Mazzotti, 2024; Tegeler et al., 2023). Rezaei and
Webley formulated a methodology for the comparison of different
adsorbent configurations: packed bed, monolith, laminate and foam
structures (Rezaei and Webley, 2009). Recently, Stampi-Bombelli et al.
investigated the technical performance comparison of
amine-functionalized y-alumina sorbent in the form of 3 mm γ-alumina
pellets and of a γ-alumina wash-coated monolith in dry ambient con­
ditions (Stampi-Bombelli et al., 2024; Stampi-Bombelli and Mazzotti,
2024). Comparison between the contactors showed higher mass transfer
coefficients in the monolith compared to the packed beds with pellets,
which are attributed to shorter diffusion lengths and lower equilibrium
capacity (Stampi-Bombelli et al., 2024). They also investigated various
geometries design parameters to optimize performance, clearly showing
that the optimal contactor design varies depending on the goals of
maximizing the volumetric productivity (tCO2/(m [3] .h)) or the sorbent
mass productivity (tCO2/(kg.h)) (Stampi-Bombelli and Mazzotti, 2024).
A project (2020–2023), supported by US Department of Energy and
involving Climeworks and Svante, was performed on the development of
novel structured adsorbent. The objective was to improve solid-DAC
through a novel combination of a VTSA process and structured adsor­
bent bed (Jones, 2023). They compare notably the Climeworks struc­
tured packed beds (manifold configuration of a packed bed, patented by
Climework (Wurzbacher et al., 2021)) and Svante’s laminate structure.
Laminate structure allows faster cycle as a result of faster mass transfer.

Structured adsorbents offer the possibility of reducing the fan energy
requirement and generally improving the mass transfer but face chal­
lenges. First, it is necessary to succeed in shaping the sorbent in a
structured form. The amines functionalities are mostly immobilized by
either impregnation (i.e. physical impregnation) or grafting by covalent
bonds on a support. The structured sorbent can be directly prepared as a
structured packed beds (Wurzbacher et al., 2021), structured adsorbent
(by extrusion or 3-D printing for example), impregnated/grafted on a
monolithic support or coated on another macro-support. Second, the bed
volume voidage, which is about 0.4 in packed beds, is generally higher
in the case of structured adsorbents, resulting in lower sorbent density
(kg of active sorbent per m [3 ] of bed). Third, the potential support where
the active sorbent is coated must be heated during the regeneration
phase. Its heat capacity, thermal diffusivity and mass can have an in­
fluence on the heating energy required and heating time.

The cost of new technologies, such as DAC, remains uncertain.
Recently, work has been carried out on techno-economic assessment for
solid-DAC (Min et al., 2024; Sabatino et al., 2021; Sievert et al., 2024;
Valentine et al., 2022b; Young et al., 2023). Sabatino et al. studied
solid-DAC with a VTSA cycle. Using a multi-objective optimization on
productivity and exergy consumption, the total energy demand of cases
with Lewatit as sorbent ranges from about 11–13 GJ/tCO2 and a



2


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



productivity ranging from about 3.8–4.6 kgCO2/(m [3] .h), which is about
one order of magnitude higher compared to
liquid-monoethanolamine-DAC (0.3–0.8 kgCO2/(m [3] .h)) (de Joannis
et al., 2025; Kiani et al., 2020; Sabatino et al., 2021). Young et al. have
performed a techno-economic assessment on a solid-DAC (Lewatit as
sorbent) paired to nuclear or intermittent energy in US for different
scales of capture (from FOAK-first-of-a-kind to GtCO2/yr) (Young et al.,
2023). At a capture scale of 100 ktCO2/yr, the bottom-up economic
model gives cost of capture ranging from 350 to _>_ 3000 $/tCO2,
depending on assumptions (Young et al., 2023). Sievert et al. estimate
the projection of cost of capture of a solid-DAC with Lewatit as sorbent
(Sievert et al., 2024). Their bottom-up approach for equipment cost
takes various references in the literature and the scale-factors were
validated by academic and industrial experts in the field. At a capture
scale of 100 ktCO2/yr, the cost of capture ranges from few hundred to
thousand dollars per CO2 tonne, depending on uncertainty. J. Valentine
and A. Zoelle, in a National Energy Technology Laboratory’s report,
compared the techno-economic performance (Class 5 cost estimates
(AACE, 2020)) of a monolith compared to a packed bed. At a capture
scale of 100 ktCO2/yr and powered by carbon-free electricity, monolith
and packed bed exhibit cost of capture of 475 $/tCO2 and 936 $/tCO2,
respectively (Valentine et al., 2022b). Min et al. developed an energy
and cost model to evaluate DAC using PEI–functionalized-ePTFE-based
laminate structured contactor (Min et al., 2024). A S-VTSA (steam-­
assisted VTSA) was simulated with pure CO2 and H2O isotherms because
of lack of binary isotherms data. The simulations investigate the con­
tactor geometry and process parameters effect on productivity, energy
requirement and cost of capture.

To the best of our knowledge, no study addressed up to now a sys­
tematic sensitivity and techno-economic analysis (TEA) of packed bed vs
monolith process for DAC, based on a rigorous set of multicomponent
CO2/H2O equilibrium data. We report hereafter the results of a series of
dynamic S-VTSA simulations in Aspen Adsorption, a commercial
adsorption software, using Lewatit as a sorbent (Aspentech, 1999). As
indicated above, Lewatit indeed shows the interest to be a commercially
available adsorbent with capacity performances close to amine func­
tionalized sorbents, and with reported CO2/H2O co-adsorption iso­
therms over a broad range of temperature (Bos et al., 2019; Chimani
et al., 2024; Driessen et al., 2020; Low et al., 2025, 2023; Schellevis
et al., 2021; Schellevis, 2023; Sonnleitner et al., 2018; Veneman et al.,
2015; Wu et al., 2022; Young et al., 2021). This offers the opportunity to
quantitatively investigate the impact of humidity on both CO2 adsorp­
tion and sorbent regeneration steps, together with the interplay of
adsorbent geometry (packed bed vs monolith). The processes are eval­
uated at large capture scale (100 ktCO2/yr) for CO2 supercritical
transport and geologic storage. Cost of capture is estimated by a unified
methodology using the Aspen Process Economic Analyzer (APEA), a
commercial software to perform early capital estimation from simula­
tion data (Aspentech, 2022). Sensitivity on economic assumptions such
as sorbent cost, design module cost, energy price, risks and contin­
gencies, discount rate plant and learning rate is discussed. In order to
evaluate the impact of the ambient and process parameters on the per­
formance of solid-DAC, a sensitivity analysis is performed on design
parameters (bed dimension, pellet radius, sorbent coating thickness),
operating conditions (air velocity, temperature and humidity, regener­
ation pressure, temperature and steam flowrate) and system properties
(adsorption/desorption loading and mass transfer coefficient).


**2.** **Process and modeling**


_2.1._ _Process overview_


An adsorption direct air capture process is modelled using an amine
sorbent. Lewatit was chosen as the amine sorbent for CO2 due to its high
affinity for CO2, and the physico-chemical and isotherm data that are
available in the literature, especially at low CO2 pressure (~40 Pa) and



humid condition (Bos et al., 2019; Chimani et al., 2024; Driessen et al.,
2020; Low et al., 2025, 2023; Schellevis et al., 2021; Schellevis, 2023;
Sonnleitner et al., 2018; Veneman et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2022; Young
et al., 2021). The simplified scheme of the process is shown in Fig. 1.
During the adsorption phase, air is pushed by fans into the packed bed
where the CO2 of the air is physically and chemically bound to the solid
sorbent. The air leaving the bed is depleted of CO2 and returned to the
atmosphere. When the adsorption phase ends, the bed is heated up using
indirect (heat exchanger) and direct (steam) thermal heating to desorb
the CO2. The desorption is helped by applying a low pressure in the bed
using a vacuum pump. The process is referred to as steam-assisted
vacuum thermal swing adsorption (S-VTSA). The CO2 is then released
and separated from water by means of a condenser. Finally, a
Compression and Purification Unit (CPU) is used to purify and compress
the CO2 for supercritical transport and storage (150 bar, 35 [◦] C). The
cycle is then ready to start again.

Aspen Adsorption V14 software was used for the simulation of the
dynamic DAC adsorption process (Aspentech, 1999). The dynamic bed
model is based on the fundamental equations of an adsorbent bed: iso­
therms, mass and energy balances of gas and solid, including mass and
heat transfers, and pressure drop across the bed.

One design considering a packed bed filled with Lewatit in pellet
shape as it is sold by Lanxess (Lanxess, 2023) and one design considering
hypothetical amine sorbent as a structured adsorbent bed (i.e. mono­
lithic sorbent with squared channels) are considered (Fig. 2). As a
starting point, the performance of the material was assessed using a
packed bed system. Due to the pressure drop limitations of the packed
bed configuration, the performance of a hypothetical
monolith-supported sorbent configuration is also evaluated using a set
of realistic parameters (Valentine et al., 2022b). The adsorbent material
in packed bed is secured by fixed-bed grids to prevent fluidization under
high gas velocity conditions (Driessen et al., 2018).


_2.2._ _Adsorption isotherms_


Adsorption equilibrium of species onto a solid surface (i.e. adsor­
bent) is typically described by isotherm models. Amine sorbent is known
to have a high affinity for CO2, and also for H2O. A description of the
sorbent equilibrium loading of CO2 and H2O on sorbent is required for
simulation purposes. The isotherm results obtained from the extant
literature may present adsorption/desorption hysteresis, especially for
pure water isotherms. Here, hysteresis phenomena were neglected to
reduce model complexity, and it was decided to consider only the
experimental adsorption phase points, which shows rapid adsorption at
low pressure and then reaches a plateau, while remaining consistent
with a first approximation of sorbent behavior (Alesi and Kitchin, 2012;
Young et al., 2021).


_2.2.1._ _Pure CO2_ _isotherms_

Toth isotherm model, expressed in molCO2/kg, is used to describe
pure CO2 adsorption on amine-functionalized adsorbents as a function of
CO2 partial pressure and temperature and is presented in Section 1 of
Supplementary Materials (Bos et al., 2019; Deschamps et al., 2022;
Gebald et al., 2014; Low et al., 2023; Schellevis et al., 2021; Sutanto


**Fig. 1.** Scheme of S-VTSA solid-based DAC.



3


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 2.** Monolithic sorbent with squared channels and packed bed with pellets.



et al., 2017; Veneman et al., 2015). This is an empirical extension to the
Langmuir isotherm homogeneous model, which differs by considering
the heterogeneity of the adsorbent surface.


_2.2.2._ _Pure H2O isotherms_

Amine based sorbent are known to co-adsorb H2O. The pure H2O
adsorption isotherm on sorbent is modeled by Guggenheim-Andersonde-Boer (GAB) isotherm, which is an empirical extension of the BET
(Brunauer-Emmett-Teller) theory, and is presented in Section 1 of Sup­
plementary Materials (Deschamps et al., 2022; Gebald et al., 2014; Low
et al., 2023; Schellevis et al., 2021; Young et al., 2021).



_2.2.3._ _Co-adsorption isotherms_

On amine-functionalized adsorbents, CO2 has little effect on the
equilibrium adsorption of H2O that remains largely unaffected by the
presence of CO2 (Gebald et al., 2014; Veneman et al., 2015). On Lewatit,
Veneman et al. have shown that the H2O capacity is unaffected by CO2
presence in the range temperature of 15–35 [◦] C up to relative humidity of
at least 70% (Veneman et al., 2015). This study assumes that the H2O
adsorption is unaffected by CO2 pressure. The H2O adsorption model
_qH_ 2 _O_ is described by the GAB isotherm and fitted using available data in
literature (Chimani et al., 2024; Low et al., 2023; Schellevis, 2023;
Young et al., 2021).

On the other hand, previous studies on Lewatit have shown that H2O
significantly enhances CO2 adsorption (Chimani et al., 2024; Schellevis,
2023; Veneman et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2022; Young et al., 2021).
Experimental data of Veneman et al. and Schellevis of CO2 co-adsorption
reported that the CO2 capacity shows approximately a linear trend be­
tween the CO2 equilibrium capacity with increasing relative humidity,
without limitation even at high relative humidity ( _>_ 80%) (Schellevis,
2023; Veneman et al., 2015). Experimental data of Young et al. shows
improvement of CO2 capacity in presence of humidity, but with a
different trend: at 25 [◦] C, CO2 adsorption capacity in presence of 30%
relative humidity is slightly higher than at 55% (Young et al., 2021).

Various models have been proposed to describe the CO2 coadsorption isotherm (Chimani et al., 2024; Schellevis, 2023; Young
et al., 2021). Thank to its simplicity, the CO2 co-adsorption isotherm is
modelled using an empirical expression from Schellevis, which corre­
lates the CO2 co-adsorption as a function of the CO2 dry adsorption (i.e.,
Toth isotherm model) and relative humidity (Schellevis, 2023).



pure CO2 adsorption isotherm on Lewatit data reported in the literature
(mainly at low CO2 partial pressure) (Low et al., 2023; Schellevis et al.,
2021; Schellevis, 2023; Sonnleitner et al., 2018; Veneman et al., 2015;
Wu et al., 2022; Young et al., 2021). The parameters _b_ and _c_ for the
correlative CO2 co-adsorption model _q_ _[wet]_ _CO_ 2 [(][Eq. (1)][) are fitted using CO][2 ]
co-adsorption isotherm on Lewatit data found in the literature (mainly
at low CO2 partial pressure) (Chimani et al., 2024; Schellevis, 2023;
Veneman et al., 2015; Young et al., 2021). The nonlinear isotherms
models are fitted using the function _fitnln_ in MATLAB.

The experimental data used to fit the parameters of _q_ _[dry]_ _CO_ 2 [, ] _[q]_ _CO_ _[wet]_ 2 [, and ]
_qH_ 2 _O_ are shown in Table 1.

The fitted parameters and root mean squared error (RMSE) for each
regression are given in Table 2. Fig. 3 shows the parity plot of the CO2
uptake for the co-adsorption model. Most of the experimental data
(93%) are within the 20% confidence interval of the model capacity, but
some experimental points are far from the model, showing the uncer­
tainty and variability of results in the literature. The variability can be
explained by an inaccuracy of the co-adsorption fitting model, differ­
ences in adsorbent material properties, experimental uncertainties, and
experimental uptake determination methods (i.e. isotherm measure­
ment or breakthrough maximum loading measurement). Typical iso­
therms at ambient and regeneration conditions of the fitted models are
plotted in Section 1 of the Supplementary Materials.


_2.3._ _Process modelling_


Models used for packed bed and monolith are very similar and are
mainly based on differential mass and energy balances and pressure
drop expressions. The main difference concerns the geometry of the
sorbent that will influence hydrodynamics and so mass and heat transfer
coefficients and pressure drop.

First the main assumptions of packed bed model are presented, fol­
lowed by the set of equations of the model, and then the differences in
the model for the monolithic shape are presented.


_2.3.1._ _Main assumptions of packed bed model_

The packed bed model makes the main following assumptions:


1. Low et al. have shown from experimental adsorption isotherms of N2,
O2 and Ar on Lewatit that their loadings are very small ( _<<_ 0.1 mol/
kg) compared to CO2 and H2O loading in ambient air conditions
(Low et al., 2023). So N2, O2 and Ar adsorption loadings are
neglected in the study. CO2 and H2O are the only adsorbed
substances.
2. 1-D spatial dimension model with axial dispersion is considered.



_q_ _[wet]_ _CO_ 2



( ) ( )
_q_ _[dry]_ _CO_ 2 _[,][ RH]_ = _b.e_ _[c][.][q]_ _CO_ _[dry]_ 2 [(] _[T][,][p][CO]_ [2] [)] _.RH_ + 1 _.q_ _[dry]_ _CO_ 2 [(] _[T][,][ p][CO]_ [2][)] (1)



This correlation uses only two fitting parameters, _b_ and _c_, to describe
the humidity effect.

The Toth model for pure CO2 adsorption capacity _q_ _[dry]_ _CO_ 2 [is fitted to ]



4


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Table 1**

Experimental data used to ft the parameters of _q_ _[dry]_ _CO_ 2 [, ] _[q]_ _CO_ _[wet]_ 2 [, and ] _[q][H]_ [2] _[O]_ [.]

Pressure range (Pa) Temperature range ( [◦] C) RH range (-) Number of data Refs.

Pure CO2 isotherm data 10–100 5–35  - 26 (Schellevis et al., 2021)
40–1000 5–35                - 21 (Schellevis, 2023)
30–100,000 25–100                 - 59 (Young et al., 2021)
10–100,000 15–120                 - 324 (Low et al., 2023)
1500–50,000 40–95                - 24 (Sonnleitner et al., 2018)
1000–80,000 30–100                - 42 (Veneman et al., 2015)
5–100,000 25–90                 - 51 (Wu et al., 2022)

Co-adsorption CO2 data 40–1000 5–35 0–0.9 76 (Schellevis, 2023)
10–100,000 25–70 0.3–0.55 42 (Young et al., 2021)
40 15–35 0–0.6 12 (Veneman et al., 2015)
15–130 15–30 0.35–0.37 17 (Chimani et al., 2024)

H2O isotherm data 230–2000 20 0.1–0.9 6 (Chimani et al., 2024)
20–2200 15–35 0.01–0.9 138 (Low et al., 2023)
30–2500 8–33 0.01–0.9 33 (Schellevis, 2023)
150–30,000 25–100 0.03–0.9 55 (Young et al., 2021)



**Table 2**
Fitted parameters and coeffcient of determination for each regression.

Parameter Value

Toth isotherm (Pure CO2) _qs_ (molCO2/kg) 3.7604
_b_ 0 (1/Pa) 0.001382
Δ _H_ 0 (kJ/molCO2) 103.05
_T_ 0 (K) 353.15
_t_ 0 (-) 0.30894
_α_ (-) 0.34148
RMSE 0.128

Co-adsorption isotherm CO2 _b_ (-) 3.5803
_c_ (kg/molCO2)                        - 1.2153
RMSE 0.220

GAB isotherm (H2O) _qG_ (molH2O/kg) 2.15
_C_ (J/molH2O) 48,459
_D_ (1/K) 0.02342
_F_ (J/molH2O) 57,197
_G_ (J/(molH2O.K))                     - 44.931
RMSE 0.534


**Fig. 3.** Parity plot of model CO2 uptake compared to experimental CO2 uptake.
Experimental data refer to the data in Table 1.


3. The Aspentech’s PENG-ROB method is used, with Peng-Robinson
equation of state for compression to supercritical CO2.
4. The packed bed of spherical particles is considered adiabatic and
takes into account a non-isothermal axial temperature. The model



assumes a uniform radial temperature and axial temperature varia­
tions (i.e. 1-D model).
5. The gas mass transfer of component to adsorbent is expressed using
the linear driving force (LDF) model, considering reaction kinetics
instantaneous (Sircar and Hufton, 2000).


_2.3.2._ _Mass balance_

The overall mass balance for a multi-component gas phase considers
axial dispersion, convection, accumulation, and gas-solid mass transfer.
Each substance _k_ in the gas phase is governed by the equation below:



( _νgck_



+ _εB_
_∂_ ~~_z_~~



)




- _εiEz,k_



_∂_ [2] _ck_



_∂∂_ ~~_z_~~ [2] _k_ [+] _[∂]_



_∂ck_

[=][ 0] (2)
_∂_ ~~_t_~~ [+] _[ J][k]_



Where _εi_ is the interparticle voidage, _Ez,k_ is the axial dispersion co­
efficient of component _k_ (m [2] /s), _ck_ is the concentration of component _k_
(mol/m [3] ), _νg_ is the superficial gas bed velocity (m/s), and
_εB_ = _εi_ + (1 − _εi_ ) _εp_ is the total bed voidage with _εp_ the intraparticle
voidage.

The axial dispersion is given by the relation below (Kast, 1981):



_Ez,k_ = 0 _._ 73 _Dm,k_ + ~~(~~ _νgrp_



_εi_ _Dm,k_

~~2~~ _νg_ ~~_r_~~ _p_



~~)~~ (3)



_εi_



~~(~~
1 + 9 _._ 49



Where _Dm,k_ is the molecular diffusion coefficient of _k_ in the gas (m [2] /
s), and _rp_ is the particle radius (m).

The rate of adsorption of _k_ (mol/(m [3] .s)) on adsorbent is expressed
using LDF model:



(

_Jk_ = − _ρBMTCk_ _q_ [*] _k_ [−] _[q][k]_



) (4)



Where _q_ [*] _k_ [is the equilibrium adsorbed quantity (mol/kg) (i.e. given ]
by the isotherm), _qk_ is the loading of _k_ on the adsorbent (mol/kg), _ρB_ is
the sorbent bulk density (kg/m [3] ), and _MTCk_ is the lumped mass transfer
coefficient (1/s) (Rezaei and Webley, 2009):



_εiKk_
_MTCk_ = [*]



_dqi_ [*] _k_ _k_ (5)
~~_dP_~~ _k_ _[RTZ]_

_dq_ [*] _k_
~~_dP_~~ _k_ [(mol/(kg.Pa)) is numerically derived from the isotherms, ] _[R ]_



_ρB_



Where



is the universal gas constant (J/(mol.K)), _Z_ is the compressibility factor,
and the _Kk_ (1/s) is given as a lumped term comprising the external film
resistance term and the pore diffusion term:



1
~~_K_~~ _k_



_rp_
=
~~3~~ ( ~~1~~  - _εi_ ) ~~_k_~~ _f,k_



_rp_ [2]
+

~~15~~ ( ~~1~~  - _εi_ ) ~~_K_~~ _p,k_



(6)



The film transfer coefficient _kf_ _,k_ (m/s) is obtained from the Sherwood
_Shk_ number:



5


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



_kf,k_ = _Shk_



_Dm,k_

~~2~~ ~~_r_~~ _p_



accumulation of heat of sorbent and heat of adsorbed phase, heat of
adsorption, and heat transfer with the gas:




 - _ks_



_∂Ts_ ∑

_∂_ ~~_t_~~ [+]



_∂qk_

_∂_ ~~_t_~~



_k_



)



(18)



Where _Shk_ = 2 _._ 0 + 1 _._ 1 _Sck_ [1] _[/]_ [3] _Re_ [0] _[.]_ [6], for a Reynolds number _Re_ =



(7)


_vg_ 2 _rpρg_



_∂Ts_

_∂_ ~~_t_~~ [+] _[ ρ][B]_



∑



_∂_ [2] _Ts_

_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [2] [+] _[ ρ][B][C][p][,][s]_



_∂Ts_



_μ_
in the range of [3:10,000] (Wakao and Funazkri, 1978) with _Sck_ = ~~_D_~~ _mμ,kρg_
the Schmidt number.



_ρBCpa,k_ _qk_



)
= 0



(
Δ _Hk_



(
_Tg_ - _Ts_



_k_



The pore diffusion coefficient _Kp,k_ (m [2] /s) is obtained from:




- _HTCap_



)

~~/~~ (8)
_p_



1
~~_K_~~ _p,k_



( 1
~~_D_~~ _n,k_



)
(8)



= _[τ]_
_εp_



1
+
_Dm,k_



Where _τ_ is the tortuosity, _p_ is a parameter used to consider the
apparent diffusion of the CO2 into the pore of the sorbent (estimated
from breakthrough curves in wet conditions, see Section 2 of the Sup­



(



)0 _._ 5



is



plementary Materials for model validation), and _Dn,k_ = 97 _rpore_



_T_
~~_M_~~ _k_



Where _ks_ is the solid thermal conductivity (W/(m.K)), _Cpa,k_ the spe­
cific heat capacity of adsorbed substance (J/(K.kg)), and _Cp,s_ (J/(kg.K))
the specific heat capacity of sorbent valid from ambient conditions up to
120 [◦] C (Low et al., 2023):

( )
_Cp,s_ = - 32300 × _Ts_ [−] [2] + 0 _._ 00227 × _Ts_ + 0 _._ 994 _._ 10 [3] (19)

The heat of adsorption Δ _Hk_ (J/mol) of CO2 and H2O is estimated
using Clausius-Clapeyron equation with the fitted isotherms of
adsorption:



the Knudsen coefficient (m [2] /s), with _rpore_ the pore radius (m) and _Mk_ the
molar mass (kg/mol).


_2.3.3._ _Gas energy balance_

The energy balance of the gas phase includes gas conductivity,
convection, accumulation of heat, compression, and heat transfers with
the solid (i.e. sorbent) and with the intern heating:



= − [Δ] _[H][k]_ (20)

~~_R_~~



_2.3.3._ _Gas energy balance_



_dln_ ( _pk_ )
~~_d_~~ ~~_T_~~ ~~[1]~~



The estimation of Δ _Hk_ is detailed in Section 3 of the Supplementary
Materials.




[+] _[v][,][g]_ _[g]_ _[g]_ _∂_ ~~_z_~~ [+] _[B]_ _[v][,][g]_ _[g]_ _∂_ ~~_t_~~ [+] _∂_ ~~_z_~~ [+] _[p]_ _g_ - _s_ (9)

+ _aHQH_ = 0



_∂Tg_



_g_

_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [+] _[ ε][B][C][v][,][g][ρ][g]_




_[g]_

_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [+] _[ HTCa][p]_



)




 - _εi_ _kg_



_∂_ [2] _Tg_



_g_

[+] _[ C][v][,][g][ν][g][ρ][g]_
_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [2]



_∂Tg_



_∂_ _g_ _[∂ν][g]_

_∂_ ~~_t_~~ [+] _[ P]_ _∂_ ~~_z_~~



(
_Tg_ - _Ts_



Where _Cv,g_ is the specific capacity of gas (J/(K.kg)), _P_ the pressure
(Pa), and _Tg_ and _Ts_ the gas and solid temperature (K), respectively.

The gas thermal conductivity _kg_ (W/(m.K)) is based on axial
dispersion (Froment et al., 2011):



∑



) (10)



_kg_ = _Cv,gρg_



_k_



(
_Ez,kyk_



With _yk_ the molar fraction of substance _k_ in gas.
The heat transfer coefficient _HTC_ (W/m [2 ] K) between gas and solid is
calculated from (Froment et al., 2011):

2
_HTC_ = _jCp,gνgρgPr_ [−] ~~3~~ (11)

With _Pr_ the Prandtl number and the _j_ -factor are:



_Pr_ = _[μ][C][p][,][g]_

~~_k_~~ _g_



(12)



_j_ = 1 _._ 66 _Re_ [−] [0] _[.]_ [51] _if_ _Re <_ 190 (13)


_j_ = 0 _._ 983 _Re_ [−] [0] _[.]_ [41] _otherwise_ (14)

The specific surface area of the bed _ap_ (m [2] /m [3] ) is calculated as:



_ap_ = (1 − _εi_ ) [3]
~~_r_~~ _p_



(15)



An internal heat exchanger is used to heat/cool the bed according to:



(
_Tg_ - _TH_



_aHQH_ = _aHUH_



) (16)



With _aH_ the heat exchanger specific surface (m [2] /m [3] ), _UH_ the heat
exchanger coefficient (W/m [2] ) and _TH_ the heating/cooling media tem­
perature (K).

Pressure drop across the packed bed considers Ergun equation for
ideal sphere:



(1 − _εi_ ) 2
_νg_
~~2~~ ~~_r_~~ _pεi_ [3]



_∂P_

_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [= −]



(



150(1 − _εi_ ) [2]



~~(~~
2 _rp_



_i_

~~)2~~ _εi_ 3 _μ νg_ + 1 _._ 75 _ρg_



)



(17)



_2.3.5._ _Parameters and cycle description_

The typical air conditions are an air temperature of 15 [◦] C and a
relative humidity of 80%. Weather conditions are based on typical
temperature and relative humidity met around the south part of North
Sea where industrial areas are favorable to run a large DAC plant (CO2
transport and storage proximity, and available low-carbon and dis­
patchable energy). Typical air molar composition is N2 (77.02%), O2
(20.67%), Ar (0.92%), CO2 (0.04%) and H2O (1.35%).

Physico-chemical properties and model parameters used in the
model, based on available data in the literature, are shown in Table 3.
Other properties not presented in the table are calculated by Aspen
Adsorption using PENG-ROB Method.

The cycle of co-current adsorption/regeneration is composed of 7
consecutive steps described below and summarized in Table 4:


1. Adsorption: Air is pushed by the fan into the bed where the CO2 and
H2O are adsorbed. This step ends when the adsorption criterion is
satisfied. The adsorption criterion corresponds to the ratio of outlet
CO2 concentration to the inlet CO2 concentration and is equal to
_C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=] [50%. So, the step ends the outlet CO][2 ] [concentration ]
reached 50% of the inlet concentration and a range from 10% to 90%
is also studied.
2. Evacuation: Air inlet flow stops, and the vacuum pump is turned on
until the bed pressure reached 0.35 bar. A small air sweep and in­
direct heating at 70 [◦] C is kept, to avoid negative temperature in the
bed caused by vacuum.
3. Pre-heating: The bed is pre-heated by indirect heating at 70 [◦] C, to
avoid condensation of water in next purge step.
4. Pre-purge: Steam passes through the bed to purge the remaining
others air constituent, especially O2 because of the issues of Lewatit
oxidation above 70 [◦] C (Sonnleitner et al., 2018).
5. S-VTSA: Indirect heating and steam at 100 [◦] C, along with vacuum
pressure at 0.3 bar allow the desorption of the CO2 and H2O. The
product is then condensed and purified in the CPU to obtain almost
pure CO2. The desorption temperature is limited to 100 [◦] C to avoid
thermal degradation of the sorbent (Lanxess, 2023; Sonnleitner et al.,
2018).
6. Cooling: Indirect cooling and a small N2 sweep allow a reduction of
the bed temperature below 70 [◦] C before letting air (i.e. oxidative O2)
entering the system.
7. Repressurization: Air enters the bed until pressure reaches ambient
pressure before starting another cycle.



_2.3.4._ _Solid energy balance_

The energy balance of the solid phase includes thermal conduction,



6


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



**Table 3**
Adsorbent properties and model parameters. Intraparticle voidage, pore radius,
density, and sorbent thermal conductivity values are in inert conditions.

Parameter Symbol Value Unit Source



Where _a_ = 1 mm is the channel space, _b_ = 0.3 mm is the sorbent
thickness, coated on a support of half thickness _d_ = 0.25 mm. The
choice of the dimensions and coating thickness is based on typical
values found in the literature for comparable studies (Grossmann
et al., 2023; Soukri et al., 2024; Stampi-Bombelli et al., 2024;
Stampi-Bombelli and Mazzotti, 2024). Stainless steel is considered as
support material ( _ρm_ = 7870 kg/m [3] ; _cp,m_ = 450 _J_ /kg/K).
Considering this geometry, the specific surface area of adsorbent is
given by _ap_ = ( _c_ +42 _ad_ ) ~~[2 ]~~ [fixed at 907 m][2][/m][3][, the active bed volume ]



Interparticle voidage _εi_ 0.40 - (Scott and Kilgour, 1969;
Weitz, 2004)
Intraparticle voidage _εp_ 0.34 - (Low et al., 2023)
Sorbent bulk density _ρB_ 476 kg/m [3] (Low et al., 2023)
Particle radius _rp_ 334 μm Average particle radius
from(Driessen et al.,
2020)
Pore radius _rpore_ 28.5 nm (Lanxess, 2023)
Tortuosity _τ_ 2.5 - Order of magnitude for
pores (Bos et al., 2019)
Adsorbed CO2 heat _Cpa,CO_ 2 88 kJ/ Estimated from liquid CO2
capacity (kmol. (Wurzbacher, 2015)



voidage is _εi_ = _[a]_ ~~_c_~~ [2]




_[a]_ ~~_c_~~ ~~[2 ]~~ [2] [equal to 0.39, the bed volume voidage is ] _[ε]_ [ =] ( _c_ + _a_ 2 [2]



( _c_ +2 _d_ ) ~~[2 ]~~



Estimated from liquid CO2
(Wurzbacher, 2015)



equal to 0.23, and the sorbent bulk density is _ρB_ = 281 kg/m [3] . For
packed bed, the active bed volume voidage and the overall bed
volume voidage coincide and are both equal to the interparticle
voidage _εi_ = 0.4. Since active bed voidage _εi_ is essentially the same in
both the monolithic and packed bed configurations, the inlet gas
velocity _vr_ = _[v]_ _ε_ _[g]_ [remains comparable for both designs. ][Table 5] [pre­]



Adsorbed H2O heat
capacity



_Cpa,CO_ 2 88 kJ/
(kmol.
K)

_Cpa,H_ 2 _O_ 75 kJ/
(kmol.
K)




_[v]_ _ε_ _[g]_ _i_ [remains comparable for both designs. ][Table 5] [pre­]



Adsorbed H2O heat _Cpa,H_ 2 _O_ 75 kJ/ Estimated from liquid
capacity (kmol. water (Peter Stephan

K) et al., 2010)

Heat of adsorption Δ _HCO_ 2 73 kJ/mol Clausius-Clapeyron
CO2 estimation using CO2



Heat of adsorption Δ _HCO_ 2 73 kJ/mol Clausius-Clapeyron
CO2 estimation using CO2

isotherms
Heat of adsorption Δ _HH_ 2 _O_ 44 kJ/mol Clausius-Clapeyron
H2O estimation using H2O



Heat of adsorption Δ _HH_ 2 _O_ 44 kJ/mol Clausius-Clapeyron
H2O estimation using H2O

isotherms
Sorbent thermal _ks_ 0.43 W/(m. (Bos et al., 2019)
conductivity K)

Heat exchanger _aH_ 100 m [2] /m [3] Order of magnitude (
specific area Schellevis and Brilman,

2024)
Heat transfer _UH_ 50 W/(m [2] . Order of magnitude (
coefficient K) Stephan et al., 2010)



(Bos et al., 2019)



Heat exchanger
specific area



_ks_ 0.43 W/(m.
K)



_UH_ 50 W/(m [2] .
K)

_Cp,w_ 4.19 kJ/(kg.
K)



Heat transfer _UH_ 50 W/(m [2] . Order of magnitude (Peter
coefficient K) Stephan et al., 2010)

Heat capacity of _Cp,w_ 4.19 kJ/(kg. Water as media
indirect heating K)
media



sents the differences of sorbent density between packed bed and
monolithic bed. The sorbent bulk density (i.e. sorbent mass per bed
volume) is lower for monolith because of the support volume that
account for about 40% of the bed volume. The heat exchanger vol­
ume is in first approximation not included in the bed volume
calculation for both design but is included in the further energy
requirement evaluation.
The solid thermal conductivity _ks_ (W/(m.K)) is calculated
considering sorbent in series with the support and the specific heat
capacity _Cp,s_ (J/(kg.K)) is calculated using Neumann-Kopp estima­
tions by taking a weighted average of the heat capacities of the
constituents (Leitner et al., 2010; Peter Stephan et al., 2010).
The required time to heat the monolith (i.e. coated sorbent and
support) is longer than the time to heat the pellet in packed bed case.
So, the pre-heating step (step n [◦] 3) is running during 2000 s in
monolith’s case, compared to 500 s for packed bed.
2. The axial dispersion coefficient is calculated using the Taylor rela­



Water as media



**Table 4**
Cycle overview.

Step Duration Temperature
( [◦] C)



Pressure
(bar)



tion for laminar flow in tube (Taylor, 1953):



_Ez,k_ = _Dm,k_ +



_v_ [2] _g_ _[a]_ [2]

_εi_ ~~192~~ ~~_D_~~ _m,k_



(21)



1 Adsorption Until 50% _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C][in]_ _CO_ 2 [=]



15 1.013



2 Evacuation Until _Pbed_ = 0 _._ 35 bar 15 0.3
3 Pre-heating 500 s 70 0.3
4 Pre-purge 50 s 70 0.3
5 S-VTSA Until _qCO_ 2 = 0 _._ 1 100 0.3
molCO2/kg



100 0.3



6 Cooling Until _Tbed_ = 70 [◦] C 70 0.3
7 Repressurization Until _Pbed_ = 1 _._ 013 bar 15 1.013



Reference values for regeneration vacuum pressure and regeneration
temperature are based on commonly values reported in literature and
maximum temperature for Lewatit (Deschamps et al., 2022; Valentine
et al., 2022b).

Care has been taken to ensure that there are no cycle effects: cycle n
is equivalent to cycle n-1.



_2.3.6._ _Monolith parameters modifications_

As previously explained, the modelling for the monolith is similar as
for pellet shaped adsorbent except for the following assumptions:


1. Amines can be integrated into monoliths for CO2 adsorption by coextruding them with the base material, impregnating the formed
structure with an amine solution, grafting amine functions onto a
monolithic structure or applying an amine-functionalized layer onto
its surfaces (i.e. coating) (Grossmann and Mazzotti, 2025; Min et al.,
2022; Soukri et al., 2024). For ease of shaping, the geometry
considered for monolith is a squared channels honeycomb monolith
with sorbent coating (Soukri et al., 2024) (Fig. 4).



Where _a_ is the channel space (m).
3. The heat transfer coefficient is obtained using the Hawthorn corre­

lation for squared channel (Crittenden et al., 2011):


**Fig. 4.** Cross-sectional diagram showing an individual unit delimited by
dot point.



7


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



**Table 5**
Compacity differences between packed bed and monolith.

Design Pellet Monolith

Particle radius / Coating thickness mm 0.334 0.3
Gas channel _a_ mm  - 1
Support half thickness _d_ mm  - 0.25
Active bed volume voidage _εi_ m [3] /m [3] 0.40 0.39
Bed volume voidage _ε_ m [3] /m [3] 0.40 0.23
Sorbent volume fraction m [3] sorbentt [/m][3] 0.60 0.35
Support volume fraction m [3] support [/m][3] 0 0.42
Bed density (i.e. sorbent) kg/m [3] 476 281
Support density kgsupport/m [3] 0 3301
Apparent sorbent interfacial area m [2] /m [3] 5389 907



**Table 6**
Key performance indicators.



CO2 productivity kgCO2/(h. Ratio of the flux of CO2 captured per bed
m [3] ) volume, adjusted with a load factor of 0.9

H2O productivity kgCO2/(h. Ratio of the flux of H2O captured per bed
m [3] ) volume, adjusted with a load factor of 0.9



H2O productivity kgCO2/(h. Ratio of the flux of H2O captured per bed
m [3] ) volume, adjusted with a load factor of 0.9

H2O production kgH2O/ Ratio of the mass of H2
kgCO2 CO2 captured



CO2 working
capacity



molCO2/
kg



CO2 captured (after CPU) per mass of sorbent



_q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ - Fractional loading: Ratio of CO2 uptake at the
end of adsorption per equilibrium CO2 uptake in
ambient air
Capture rate % CO2 capture rate, including losses in adsorption,
evacuation and pre-purge steps
CO2 productivity kgCO2/(h. Ratio of the flux of CO2 captured per bed
m [3] ) volume, adjusted with a load factor of 0.9



(22)



Pa/m Pressure drop divided by bed height



)0 _._ 45



_HTC_ = [2] _[.]_ [977] _[ k][g]_

~~_a_~~



(
1 + 0 _._ 095 _[a Re Pr]_
~~_L_~~



H2O production kgH2O/ Ratio of the mass of H2O captured per mass of
kgCO2 CO2 captured

Pressure drop Pa Air pressure drop in the bed during adsorption
Lineic pressure Pa/m Pressure drop divided by bed height
drop



Where _L_ is the length of the channel (m).
4. _MTCk_ is the lumped mass transfer coefficient (1/s) for monolith
(Rezaei and Webley, 2009):



GJ/tCO2 Sum of steam and indirect heating



_εiKk_
_MTCk_ = [*]



_dq_ [*] _ki_ _k_ (23)
~~_dP_~~ _k_ _[RTZ]_



Indirect heat GJ/tCO2 Indirect heating requirement for regeneration
Steam heat GJ/tCO2 Steam heating requirement for regeneration
Fan work MWh/tCO2 Fan work
Vacuum work MWh/tCO2 Vacuum pump work
CPU work MWh/tCO2 Work of the compressors in the CPU
Total heat. GJ/tCO2 Sum of steam and indirect heating
energy



Total elec. energy MWh/tCO2 Sum of electrical work of fan, vacuum pump and
CPU compressors
Total primary GJ/tCO2 Total energy requirements using a primary
energy energy factor of 2.3 for electricity (= thermal



_ρB_



Where _Kk_ (1/s) is given as a lumped term comprising the external
film resistance term and the pore diffusion term:



1 _a_

=

~~_K_~~ _k_ ~~4~~ _εi_ ~~_k_~~ _f,k_



_c_ [2]   - _a_ [2]
+

~~32~~ _εi_ ~~_K_~~ _p,k_



(24)



Total primary GJ/tCO2 Total energy requirements using a primary
energy energy factor of 2.3 for electricity (= thermal

energy + electrical energy x 2.3) (Minist`ere de la
Transition Ecologique et de la Coh [´] ´esion Des
Territoires, 2024)
Specific CAPEX €/tCO2 Specific capital cost
Specific OPEX €/tCO2 Specific operational cost
Cost of capture €/tCO2 Cost of capture (CAPEX + OPEX)



The film transfer coefficient _kf_ _,k_ (m/s) is obtained from the Sher­
wood _Shk_ number (Rezaei and Webley, 2009):



_kf,k_ = _Shk_



_Dm,k_

(25)
~~_a_~~



, with _Sck_ = ~~_D_~~ _mμ,kρg_ [the ]



(
Where _Shk_ = 2 _._ 95 1 + 0 _._ 139 _Sck_ _Re_ ~~_H_~~ _ab_



) [0] _[.]_ [81]



**Table 7**
Reference case process parameters.

Parameter Symbol Value Unit

Bed height _HB_ 0.5 m
Bed diameter _DB_ 2 m
Superficial air velocity _vg_ 1 m/s
Air temperature _Tair_ 15 ◦C
RH _RH_ 0.8 Regeneration vacuum pressure _Pvp_ 0.3 bar
Regeneration temperature _TH_ 100 ◦C


specific area, and others heat requirements (adsorbed CO2 and H2O
respective heat capacity, and gas capacity).

The heat exchanger energy per tonne of CO2 (GJ/tCO2) is:



Schmidt number and _Re_ =



_vg_ 2 _rpρg_



_μ rpρg_ the Reynolds number.



5. The pore diffusion coefficient _Kp,k_ is the same as for pellets, except for
the tortuosity which is equal to _τ_ = 1.
6. Pressure drop across the monolith considers Hagen-Poiseuille equa­



tion for squared channel (Patton et al., 2004):



_∂P_

_∂_ ~~_z_~~ [= −] [28] _εi_ _[.]_ ~~_a_~~ [4][2] _[ μ]_ ~~_[ν]_~~ _[g]_ (26)



(27)



_2.3.7._ _Techno-economic methodology_

A reference case for the two designs (packed bed and monolith) is
first simulated and the general behavior of the adsorption/regeneration
cycle is discussed. The Key Process Indicators (KPI), listed in Table 6, are
discussed for this reference case. The reference process parameters
values are displayed in Table 7.

The dimensions of the bed have been calculated to reach a produc­
tivity in the order of magnitude of tens of tonnes of CO2 captured per
year (i.e. module dimension). Superficial air velocity is chosen in the
order of magnitude of meter per second.

The energy requirement is breakdown into heat and electrical
requirements:

1. The thermal heat requirement for regeneration is provided by
indirect heating (heat exchanger) and by direct heating (steam). Heat
requirement includes heat of desorption, heat capacity of sorbent and
support for monolithic design, heat capacity indirect heating system
using stainless steel heat exchanger of 2 mm thickness, with 100 m [2] /m [3 ]



_QHX_ = _[Q][HX][,][c]_

~~_m_~~ _CO_ 2 _,c_



Where _QHX,c_ is the heat exchanger energy provided per cycle for
regeneration (GJ), and _mCO_ 2 _,c_ is the mass of CO2 captured per cycle
(tCO2).

The heat provided by steam per tonne of CO2 (GJ/tCO2) is:



) _dt_



(28)



(
Δ _TS,_ 1 + Δ _TS,_ 2



_QS_ =



∫ _tdes_ 1



_ttdesdes_ 01 _m_ ˙ _H_ 2 _Ocp,H_ 2 _O_



~~_m_~~ _CO_ 2 _,c_



Where _m_ [˙] _H_ 2 _O_ [is the steam mass flow rate (kg/s), ] _[c][p][,][H]_ [2] _[O ]_ [is the steam ]
heat capacity (J/kg K), Δ _TS,_ 1 is the temperature difference from the bed
inlet and bed outlet, Δ _TS,_ 2 is the temperature difference (i.e. pinch;
estimated at 10 [◦] C (Gicquel, 2017)) considering a heat exchanger be­
tween the outlet and inlet flow, and, _tdes_ 0 and _tdes_ 1 are the initial and final
time during the steam is provided per cycle, respectively.

2. Air is pushed through the bed by a fan to compensate the pressure
drop across the bed. The fan work per tonne of CO2 (MWh/tCO2) is:



8


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



_Wfan,c_
_Wfan_ =
_ηisηem_ ~~_m_~~ _CO_ 2 _,c_



(29)



**Table 8**
Assumptions for the capital costs estimation and the overall economic
evaluation.

Capital cost



Where _Wfan,c_ is the isentropic compression work per cycle (MWh),
and _ηis_ (typically 0.75) and _ηem_ (typically 0.95) are the isentropic and
electro-mechanical efficiencies, respectively (Franco et al., 2011).

3. During regeneration, vacuum is provided by a vacuum pump. The
vacuum work per tonne of CO2 (MWh/tCO2) is:



Components capital costs of Adsorber, Fan and Vacuum
pump at unit scale

Components capital costs of Adsorber, Fan and Vacuum
pump at plant capacity scale (100 ktCO2/yr)



APEA estimation



APEA estimation



_Wvac,c_
_Wvac_ =
_ηvac_ ~~_m_~~ _CO_ 2 _,c_



(30)



Components capital costs of Adsorber, Fan and Vacuum 15% learning rate on
pump at plant capacity scale (100 ktCO2/yr) above cost

Components capital of Boiler, Condenser, Flash vessel and APEA estimation
CPU



Where _Wvac,c_ is the isentropic compression work per cycle (MWh) and
_ηvac_ (typically 0.68 at _Pvp_ = 0.3 bar) is the performance efficiency,
calculated using the following formula (Rafael Teruo Maruyama, 2020):



_Total field cost (TFC: total direct cost_ + _total indirect cost)_ Sum of above
Other cost (power supply, water treatment and 20% of TFC
conditioning components, steam integration, temporary
installations, transport, etc.)



20% of TFC



19 _._ 29 _Pvp_
_ηvac_ = 0 _._ 8 ~~1~~ + ~~19~~ _._ ~~29~~ ~~_P_~~ _vp_



(31)



Engineering, procurement, and construction 9% of TFC
Risks and contingencies 30% of sum of above
_Total Plant Cost (TPC)_ Sum of above
Spare parts 0.5% of TPC
Start-up 2% of TPC
Operator costs (other studies, enquiry, land purchase, site 7% of TPC
access, permitting, etc.)



4. The Compression and Purification Unit (CPU in Fig. 1) used
compressors to compress CO2 into supercritical phase (35 [◦] C, 150 bars,

_>_ 99.5%mol). Details on compressors work is given in Section 4 of the
Supplementary Materials.

To assess the performance of both designs, a techno-economic
analysis is conducted for initial deployment at an industrial scale of
100 ktCO2/yr to provide a comprehensive understanding of their po­
tential impact on the cost of capture (Rubin et al., 2013; Van Der Spek
et al., 2019). The cost estimation of components capital cost is done in
euros 2022 using Aspen Process Economic Analyzer (APEA) V14, which
is used for conducting economic evaluations of process plants
(Aspentech, 2022). APEA is selected because of its industry-recognized
capabilities for early-stage economic evaluations and its ability to inte­
grate with process simulations. This provides a consistent framework for
comparing alternatives. Boiler, condenser (heat exchanger and flash
vessel), and CPU are estimated directly at plant capacity scale. Adsorber,
vacuum pump and fan are estimated at unit scale and then the cost is
extrapolated at plant capacity scale using a learning rate. Thanks to high
modularity of adsorption module, a learning rate of 15% is applied
(Fasihi et al., 2019). More details on APEA estimations are provided in
Section 5 of the Supplementary Materials. The Total Capital Require­
ment (CAPEX) is calculated using multiplying factors from component
costs, described in Table 8.

The dry sorbent cost is evaluated to 16 €/kg (see Section 5 of the
Supplementary Materials for extrapolation from laboratory-scale price
using Hart and Sommerfeld method (Hart and Sommerfeld, 1997)).
Monolith design considers a cost of 2 €/kg for the support (i.e.
stainless-steel sheet) on which sorbent is coated. By adding the
stainless-steel cost to the sorbent cost, the monolith cost is raised to 39
euros per kg of sorbent for monolith design. As a first approximation, the
sorbent lifetime is 2 years and should be replaced every two years for
both designs (Grimm et al., 2024). The monolith support lifetime is also
two years. H2O cost is accounted as positive or negative value depending
on if the process produces or consumes water. Assumptions for load
factor, discount rate, energy cost, material cost and O&M cost are pro­
vided in Table 8.

A ‘one-at-a-time’ sensitivity analysis, adapted to the Aspentech
software environment, is studied on design parameters (bed height,
pellet radius, adsorbent coating thickness), operating conditions (su­
perficial air velocity, temperature and humidity, regeneration pressure
and temperature) and system properties (adsorption/desorption
loading). Table 9 shows the range of the variation of process parameters.
Reference values (i.e. reference case’s values), which are kept constant
in the sensitivity analysis of another parameter, are shown in bold in the
table. Bed minimum height is limited by the minimum height available
in the APEA’s estimation (i.e., 0.5 m) adsorber vessel.



_3.1.1._ _Reference case_

The purpose of this section is to analyze the characteristics and
performance of each design, packed bed and monolith. The technoeconomic performance is evaluated in the reference case (see Table 7).

Fig. 5 shows the CO2 and H2O uptake, outlet CO2 molar fraction,
temperature, and pressure profiles for the two designs of the reference



7% of TPC



Insurance 0.5% of TPC
Local taxes 0.5% of TPC
Interim interest 17.5% of TPC
_Total Capital Requirement (TCR)_ Sum of above from TPC



O&M cost

Operational labor cost 10 jobs/100 ktCO2/yr; 60 k€/(jobs.yr)

Annual maintenance cost 3% of TPC

Other assumptions

Cost basis €2022, Rotterdam, The Netherlands

Load factor 90%
Discount rate 8%
Economic lifetime 20 years
Electricity cost 70 €/MWh
Heat cost 10 €/GJ
Sorbent cost 15.6 €/kg
Monolith support cost 2 €/kg
Sorbent/monolith lifetime 2 years
N2 cost 1 €/kg
H2O cost 0.5 €/tH2O


**Table 9**
Process parameter range of the sensitivity analysis. Reference values are shown
in bold.

Parameter Symbol Value Unit



Bed height _HB_ **0.5**, 0.75, 1 m
Superficial air velocity _vg_ 0.1, 0.25, **1**, 2 m/s
Pellet radius [a] _rp_ **334**, 668, 1002 μm
Sorbent coating thickness [b] b 100, **300**, 500 μm
Adsorption criterion _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C][in]_ _CO_ 2 10, **50**, 90 %



Air temperature _Tair_ 5, **15**, 35 ◦C
Relative humidity _RH_ 0, 0.2, 0.5, **0.8** Regeneration vacuum pressure _Pvp_ 0.1, **0.3**, 0.5 bar
Regeneration temperature _TH_ 80, 90, **100** ◦C
Desorption criterion _qCO_ 2 **0.1**, 0.3, 0.5, 0.8 molCO2/kg



a Packed bed design only.
b Monolith design only.



**3.** **Results and discussion**


_3.1._ _Techno-economic comparison of monolith and pellet shape sorbents_



9


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 5.** (a) Packed bed and (b) monolith CO2 and H2O loading. The numbers in grey and vertical line refer to the step number of the cycle (see Table 4). (c) Packed
bed and (d) monolith bed temperature (in green) and bed pressure (in grey) at the middle of the bed. (e) Packed bed and (f) monolith CO2 molar fraction at the outlet
of the bed.


10


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



case. The temperature and pressure are those in the middle of the bed.

The CO2 uptake at the end of adsorption phase (step 1) is higher for
packed bed compared to monolith (Fig. 5 **(a) and (b)** ) because of higher
mass transfer coefficient and lower dispersion (about 7 × 10 [–][4 ] m [2] /s and
2 × 10 [–][3 ] m [2] /s for packed bed and monolith, respectively). The mass
transfer coefficient ( _MTC_ in Eq. (4)) during adsorption phase varies in
the range of 2.5 × 10 [–][5 ] - 1.2 × 10 [–][3 ] s [-1 ] for packed bed and 1.5 × 10 [–][5 ] 2.5 × 10 [–][4 ] s [-1 ] for monolith, which is in the same order of magnitude of
experimental measurement for DAC conditions with Lewatit (Low et al.,
2025; Wu et al., 2022). The lower upper bound observed for the
monolith might be attributed to its squared structured channels pro­
moting more laminar flow and fewer particle-particle contact points,
which tends to reduce turbulence compared to a packed bed. The H2O
uptake is higher at the end of the adsorption phase for packed bed
compared to monolith because of higher relative humidity in the packed
bed. For the packed bed’s case, the relative humidity is indeed higher at
the fan outlet (1.26 bar) than in ambient air (1.013 bar) because of the
need to compress the air to compensate the large pressure drop. The time
duration of the step n [◦] 2 to n [◦] 4 is longer for monolith (2082 s for
monolith versus 583 s for packed bed) because of the need to heat the
monolith support.

Table 10 presents the material and energy balances, and cost of
capture results for the two designs in the reference case. Detailed ma­
terial and energy balances of each stream during each step for monolith
in the reference case is given in Section 6 of the Supplementary Mate­
rials. Fig. 6 shows the distribution of the primary energy requirement of
each consumption categories. The lineic pressure drop is very high for
packed bed (~50 kPa/m) at 1 m/s. Due to the large volume of air to be
treated, this results in significant fan work (13.2 MWh/tCO2), thereby
contributing to excessive primary energy consumption. Indeed, even by
considering a low electrical carbon footprint (e.g., 32 gCO2/kWh in
France in 2023 (RTE, 2024)), the electrical requirement of fan would
emit about 0.42 tCO2 per tonne of CO2 captured. This suggests that
lower air velocity, lower bed height or larger particle diameter (see
Ergun law Eq. (17)) are preferable for packed bed but would have an
influence on productivity. Pressure drop is much lower in case of
monolith, with reasonable fan work. Vacuum work is close for both
design with 0.51 and 0.47 MWh/tCO2 for packed bed and monolith,
respectively. Most of vacuum work occurs during the S-VTSA step and is
influenced by the desorbed quantities of CO2 and H2O and the steam
flow. Indirect heat and steam heat are higher with monolith because of
the need to heat the support added, which account for about 30% of
primary energy requirement. The steam heat is very low compared to
indirect heat in both designs. Steam helps desorption by adding turbu­
lence and lowering the CO2 partial pressure. Higher steam would have a


**Table 10**
Key process indicators of the packed bed and monolith in the reference case.

Design Packed bed Monolith



**Fig. 6.** Distribution of primary energy requirement for pellet shape and
monolith in the reference case. Other heat requirement regroups sorbent sen­
sible heat (mainly), adsorbed CO2, H2O and gas phase capacity, and
condenser pinch.


beneficial effect on productivity by helping faster desorption but also
would have a negative effect on vacuum pump work and steam heat.
Because of high sorbent affinity for H2O, the heat provided for the H2O
desorption is higher than heat provided for CO2 desorption, for both
designs (Fig. 6). Dryer air ambient condition would be favorable to
reduce the heat required to desorb H2O but would also reduce the CO2
uptake because of the lower effect of the synergetic co-adsorption
isotherm (i.e. CO2 uptake enhanced by RH in Eq. (1)).

Before repressurization with air (step n [◦] 7), the bed is cooled to a
temperature of 70 [◦] C (step n [◦] 6) to limit oxidation of the sorbent under
temperature. The cooling operation, provided by the heat exchanger (at
_TH_ = 25 [◦] C) and a sweep of N2, corresponds to 1.1 and 3.5 GJ/tCO2 for
pellet and monolith, respectively. Cooling is again higher for monolith
because of the need to cool down the support.

As previously seen, the CO2 uptake and sorbent bulk density are
higher for packed bed, leading to a higher productivity. The pro­
ductivities are 2.39 kgCO2/(h.m [3] ) for packed bed and 1.17 kgCO2/(h.
m [3] ) for monolith, which are in the order of magnitude for literature
results of solid-DAC with amines (Sabatino et al., 2021; Stampi-Bombelli
and Mazzotti, 2024; Young et al., 2023). This difference in productivity
explains most of the difference in specific CAPEX between both designs.
Indeed, monolith required higher volume (i.e. higher number of
adsorber vessel module) for capturing the same quantity as packed bed.
The disadvantage on specific OPEX of packed bed is mainly explained by
the high electrical consumption of fan. Finally, the cost of capture is
2102 €/tCO2 for packed bed and 2090 €/tCO2 for monolith, which is
close for both designs at the operating point shown. The compensation
effect between productivity and fan power, leading to a similar overall
CO2 capture cost between packed bed and monolith has to be high­
lighted. The evaluated cost of capture is in the high range of the esti­
mation in the literature for amine sorbent DAC, where costs generally
fall below 1000 €/tCO2 for packed bed design (McQueen et al., 2021;
Sievert et al., 2024; Valentine et al., 2022b; Young et al., 2023). This
variation is primarily driven by the scale of the plant, its energy source
and the specific sorbent-contactor system employed. The cost of
adsorption DAC is expected to follow an experience curve, with costs
decreasing as the cumulative installed capacity doubles. The cost of the
first units (i.e. with a cumulative capacity of less than 1 MtCO2/yr) is
generally at the upper end of the cost range, whereas the estimated cost
of massive deployment and long-term projections (i.e. with a cumulative
capacity of more than 1 GtCO2/yr) could decrease significantly,



CO2 working capacity molCO2/kg 1.84 1.59
_q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ - 0.98 0.85



Capture rate % 94 82
CO2 productivity kgCO2/(h.m [3] ) 2.39 1.17
H2O productivity kgCO2/(h.m [3] ) 5.03 1.76
H2O production tH2O/tCO2 2.10 1.50
Pressure drop Pa 26.5 × 10 [3] 0.66 × 10 [3]

Lineic pressure drop Pa/m 53 × 10 [3] 1.31 × 10 [3]



Indirect heat GJ/tCO2 10.6 15.8
Steam heat GJ/tCO2 0.08 0.96
Fan work MWh/tCO2 13.2 0.41
Vacuum work MWh/tCO2 0.51 0.47
CPU work MWh/tCO2 0.10 0.10
Total heat. energy GJ/tCO2 10.7 15.9
Total elec. energy MWh/tCO2 13.8 0.98
Total primary energy (see Table 6) GJ/tCO2 124.9 24.0
Specific CAPEX €/tCO2 675 1049
Specific OPEX €/tCO2 1427 1041
Cost of capture €/tCO2 2102 2090



11


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



reaching a few hundred euros per tonne of CO2, due to the learning
effect. For example, Sievert et al. demonstrated that the capture cost
could fall by over 70% following 18 cumulative capacity doublings.
However, achieving these cost reductions depends on scaling up
deployment from current kilotonne-per-annum demonstration plants to
multi-megaton-per-annum commercial facilities. The following para­
graph details the breakdown of costs, showing the cost elements that
lead to such high capture costs.

Fig. 7 displays the distribution of CAPEX and OPEX costs for packed
bed and monolith in reference case. Packed bed and monolith have
different trends (Fig. 7 **(a)** ). Packed bed is more electro-intensive and
would be favorable in location where the low-carbon and dispatchable
electricity is cheap. Monolith is capital intensive with high CAPEX and
high cost of monolith but requires low electricity requirement. In our
economic estimation, the adsorber accounts for major part of the
CAPEX, more than 75% for both designs (Fig. 7 **(b)** ).

The cost of capture is greatly influenced by the economic and tech­
nical assumptions used in the estimation. In our analysis, process data
derived from our simulations were used as inputs for APEA. APEA
operates with built-in cost correlations and default parameters, which
typically yield estimates with an accuracy range of - 30% to +50%,
suitable for feasibility studies (AACE, 2020). As can be noticed above,
the capital cost of adsorber column, estimated using ‘dual vessel tem­
perature swing adsorber’ model in APEA and including the vessel pair,
distributors, packing supports, valve skid and heater, is high and ac­
counts for most of the part of the capture cost. Also, the financial,
technical, and economic assumptions such as sorbent cost, energies
prices, load factor, risks and contingencies, and plant life have an in­
fluence on cost of capture. Fig. 8 displays results for these diverse as­
sumptions on both designs for the reference case. The figure caption
indicates the range of values and the reference point. This sensitivity
analysis of key parameters shows how variations affect our findings,
presenting them as a range of possibilities rather than definitive figures.
The capital cost of the adsorber was varied from a low-cost adsorber
(cost reduced by ten compared to APEA estimation for adsorber column)
that could consider an adsorber module standardized with cheap ma­
terial, a simple production process, a low-tech design to a high-cost
design (cost doubled compared to APEA estimation) considering that
the monolith complexity led to higher cost than what estimated by
APEA. Reduction on adsorber CAPEX has a larger influence, especially
for the monolith. For capital intensive process like monolith design,
capital economic parameters, such as risks and contingencies, load
factor, plant lifetime, discount rate and learning rate have a large effect



on cost of capture. Learning rate has a high effect on cost because of the
modularity nature of the plant (i.e. large number of identical adsorber).
Electricity and heat can be studied over a wide range of values, offering
numerous possibilities for energy sources and market price fluctuations.
Since the packed bed is electricity intensive, electricity price has a high
effect on the cost of capture.

The sorbent cost also impacts the overall capture cost because of the
quantity required and its replacement every two years. The cost of the
sorbent for the packed bed varied from a low-cost, high-volume pro­
duction cost to a cost of 20 €/kg. The manufacturing process for the
monolith (Lewatit sorbent coated on steel support) introduces signifi­
cant cost uncertainty. The cost of the monolith is uncertain due to the
development of the necessary shaping process. In the reference case, the
cost of the sorbent is 16 €/kg of active molecule (i.e., Lewatit) for the
packed bed, while the cost is 39 €/kg of active molecule when the cost of
the support is included in the monolithic case. Thus, the sensitivity range
of the cost of the monolith varies from a cost reduced by a factor of 5
(thanks to inexpensive shaping of the monolith) compared to the
reference case, to a cost multiplied by a factor of 5 (due to complex and
expensive shaping) compared to the reference case. The results show
that the cost of the monolith must be limited to avoid a significant in­
crease in the cost of capture.

The sorbent’s lifespan is another critical parameter, influenced by
factors like temperature, humidity, gas velocity, and the number of cy­
cles. We assumed a reference lifespan of two years (Climeworks, 2024;
Grimm et al., 2024). The sensitivity analysis reveals that a decrease in
lifespan from two years to half a year increases the total capture cost by
25% for packed bed and 77% for monolith. This highlights the necessity
for the sorbent to be highly resistant to degradation under both ambient
and regeneration conditions.

In addition, the energy requirement and carbon footprint of the
provided energy should be low to ensure that the energy usage does not
emit more than what is captured by DAC (de Joannis et al., 2025; Deutz
and Bardow, 2021). Assuming that the energy is provided by electricity
only (with a 100% efficiency from electricity to heat), the packed bed
and monolith in the reference case would require 16.8 MWh/tCO2 and
5.4 MWh/tCO2, respectively. Even with a low-carbon and dispatchable
electricity (e.g., 32 gCO2/kWh in France in 2023 (RTE, 2024)), the
packed bed would emit 0.54 tCO2 per tonne of CO2 captured (i.e., a net
capture of 0.46 tCO2). By comparison, the monolith would emit 0.17
tCO2 per tonne of CO2 captured (i.e., net capture of 0.83 tCO2).
Furthermore, with more carbon-intensive energy (e.g., 207 gCO2/kWh
in the European Union in 2023 (European Environment Agency, 2025)),



**Fig. 7.** (a) Distribution of the cost of capture on capital cost, O&M, electricity, heat, sorbent/monolith, and chemicals. Other chemicals account for N2, water and
zeolite dehydration in CPU. (b) Distribution of the capital cost on the main equipment.


12


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 8.** Economic assumptions effect on the cost of capture for (a) packed bed and (b) monolith. Captions provide information on the _parameter; low range_ ← _reference_
_point_ → _high range_ .



the energy production required for DAC emits more CO2 than what
packed bed and monolith DACs capture, with emissions of 3.5 tCO2 and
1.1 tCO2 per tonne of CO2 captured, respectively.



_3.1.2._ _Bed height sensitivity_

The bed height is varied from 0.5 to 1 m for both designs. As shown in
Fig. 9 **(a)**, productivity is higher when the bed height is smaller. Since the
process is capital intensive, the productivity has a large influence on the



**Fig. 9.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) pressure drop and fan work as a function of bed height for packed bed and monolith.


13


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



cost of capture. Bed height also has a linear influence on the air pressure
drop during adsorption (Fig. 9 **(b)** ). The pressure drop is higher about
two times order of magnitude for packed bed compared to monolith. For
monolith, the pressure drop (1.3 kPa) and fan work (0.74 MWh/tCO2)
remain reasonable in case of 1 m bed height. Thus, a lower bed height is
advantageous in terms of productivity and pressure drop, but it is
limited by technological constraints (i.e., a very low bed height is
technically impossible).



_3.1.3._ _Air velocity sensitivity_



The air velocity is varied from 0.1 to 2 m/s, depending on the design.
As can be seen in Fig. 10 **(a)**, higher velocity results in higher produc­
tivity because of faster adsorption phase and lower capture cost. The
trend is less marked in the case of monolith when gas velocity increases
from 1 m/s to 2 m/s, where the characteristic CO2 residence time in gas
channel decreases compared to characteristic mass transfer time from
gas to adsorption site: the adsorption criterion ( _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=] [50%) is ]

met faster. Indeed, the fractional loading _q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ [is higher at 1 m/ ]

s ( _q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ [=][ 0] _[.]_ [85) than at 2 m/s (] _[q][max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ [=][ 0] _[.]_ [73), showing ]



a better utilization of adsorption sites at 1 m/s.



As seen in Fig. 10 **(b)**, in case of monolith, the pressure drop is line­
arly influenced by the air velocity (Eq. (26)) and is about 1 MWh/tCO2 at
2 m/s. In case of packed bed, the pressure drop is proportional to a linear
term and a quadratic term by the air velocity (Eq. (17)). The pressure
drop increases rapidly, at just 0.25 m/s the pressure drop reaches almost
5 kPa/m, which results in high fan work. At 0.1 m/s, the pressure drop is
smaller and about 2 kPa/m but the productivity became too low ( _<_ 0.5
kgCO2/(h.m [3] )), resulting in high cost of capture.

In summary, higher air velocity improves productivity until the
residence time becomes too short, but also increases pressure drop and
the associated fan work.


_3.1.4._ _Adsorbent thickness_

In this section, the sorbent thickness geometry of both designs is
studied. First, for pellets, since the pressure drop is high in adsorption
phase for packed bed and is dependent on the pellet radius (Eq. (17)),
the radius was multiplied by a factor 2 ( _rp_ = 668 μm) and factor 3 ( _rp_ =
1002 μm) compared to reference case ( _rp_ = 334 μm). Results on pro­
ductivity, cost of capture, pressure drop, fan work, energies re­
quirements and specific OPEX/CAPEX are displayed on Fig. 11. The
productivity is higher with smaller pellets due to faster mass transfer (i.
e. _MTC_ is dependent on the pellet radius, Eq. (6)). In contrast, the cost of
capture is lower for larger pellet, mainly due to lower pressure drop.



Indeed, the gain in fan work allows a large reduction of total electrical
requirement and specific OPEX. The pressure drop (6 kPa) and associ­
ated fan work (4.5 MWh/tCO2) remain high even for the larger pellet
( _rp_ = 1002 μm). The loss in productivity has a small effect on the specific
CAPEX increase compared to specific OPEX reduction due to lower fan
work with larger pellet.

Secondly, concerning the monolith, the adsorbent coating thickness
is varied from 100 to 500 μm and compared to the reference case (300
μm). The support monolith thickness and superficial air velocity _vg_ (i.e.
constant air flow) are kept constant, so the channel space and the inlet
velocity _vr_ are varied. The geometrics characteristics for each case are
presented in Table 11. Results on productivity, cost of capture and en­
ergies requirements are presented on Fig. 12. Productivity is higher for
thinner thickness due to higher mass transfer coefficient dependent on
geometry (Eq. (24)), and results in lower cost of capture. Electrical
requirement is lower for thinner coating (i.e. channel space bigger and
smaller inlet velocity _vr_ ). Heat requirement is lower for the reference
case (300 μm) because of a trade-off between the sensible heat of
monolith support and CO2 quantity captured per cycle. The sensible heat
of monolith support is the same for the three thicknesses, but the CO2
quantity captured per cycle is higher for 300 μm (12.1 molCO2)
compared to 100 μm (5.2 molCO2) and 500 μm (9.8 molCO2). The dif­
ference between 300 μm and 100 μm is expected since the active volume
is higher for the 300 μm case. The CO2 quantity captured per cycle is
lower for 500 μm because of characteristic CO2 residence time in gas
channel decreases ( _vr_ = 7 _._ 1m/s) compared to characteristic mass
transfer time from gas to adsorption site: the adsorption criterion
( _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=][ 50%) is met faster.]
In summary, a smaller coating thickness results in higher produc­
tivity, while an optimum can be found for minimum energy
requirement.


_3.2._ _Techno-economic insights on monolith_


Due to the high pressure drop associated with packed beds under
typical industrial operating conditions, the following sensitivity analysis
is only detailed for the monolithic configuration, which offers lower
resistance to gas flow.


_3.2.1._ _Air temperature and relative humidity_

Air temperature is varied from 5 to 35 [◦] C. Since CO2 isotherms are
favorable at low temperature, it is not surprising to notice in Fig. 13 that
the productivity is higher, and the capture cost is lower when the air
temperature becomes lower.



_3.1.4._ _Adsorbent thickness_



**Fig. 10.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) pressure drop and fan work as a function of air superficial velocity for packed bed and monolith.


14


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 11.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, (b) pressure drop and fan work, (c) energies requirements, and (d) specific OPEX/CAPEX as a function of pellet
radius for packed bed.



**Table 11**
Geometry characteristics for sorbent thickness in monolith **.**

Sorbent thickness 100 μm 300 μm (ref.) 500 μm

Channel space a mm 1.4 1 0.6
Support half thickness d mm 0.25 0.25 0.25
Superficial velocity _vg_ m/s 1 1 1
Inlet velocity _vr_ m/s 1.3 2.6 7.1


Relative humidity is varied from 0 to 0.8. As seen in the CO2 coadsorption isotherms (Eq. (1)), the CO2 uptake is improved in the
presence of humidity. This leads to higher CO2 productivity and lower
cost of capture at high air humidity content (Fig. 14 **(a)** ). At higher
relative humidity, more H2O is also adsorbed that requires energy for
the H2O desorption during the regeneration. As can be seen in Fig. 14
**(b)**, the relative humidity remains favorable in term of heat energy
requirement because the heat required to desorb H2O is lower compared
to the specific sensible heat required to heat sorbent and monolith
support. Also, at low relative humidity the process consumes water, and
this could be detrimental in dry geographical area, unless a water re­
covery strategy is applied. Conversely, solid-DAC is a net water producer
above 20% relative humidity, which may be of interest in areas where
freshwater resources are stressed.

So solid-DAC using Lewatit performs better in relatively cold and



humid climate, and the H2O production could be an interesting coproduct in constrained area.


_3.2.2._ _Adsorption criterion_

The adsorption criterion ( _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [) during the adsorption phase ]
(step n [◦] 1) is varied from 10% to 90%. Results on productivity, cost of
capture, energy requirements, CO2 working capacity and adsorption
time are presented in Fig. 15. The adsorption criterion of _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=]
50% allows the highest productivity and therefore the lowest cost of
capture. The electrical requirement is also lower for _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=] [50% ]
because of the trade-off between the improvement of CO2 working ca­
pacity and the improvement of the adsorption time (step n [◦] 1). The
lowest heat requirement corresponds to _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=] [90% because of ]
the higher CO2 working capacity for the same sensible heat of monolith
support. The optimum adsorption criterion (whether based on produc­
tivity, capture cost or energy requirement) lies within the range studied.
However, a dedicated optimization study is required to accurately
determine the optimum value.


_3.2.3._ _Regeneration vacuum pressure_

The regeneration vacuum pressure (i.e. vacuum pressure in the bed
during regeneration applied by the vacuum pump) is varied from 0.1 to
0.5 bar. The low limit (0.1 bar) is based on the lowest vacuum pressure



15


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 12.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) energies requirements as a function of sorbent coating thickness for monolith.



**Fig. 13.** CO2 productivity and cost of capture as a function of air temperature
for monolith.



known by the authors for similar application (i.e. large volume to be
treated in a carbon capture industrial pilot) (Membrane Technology and
Research, 2018) and on limitations due to the energy performance of
vacuum pumps (Eq. (31)).

As shown in Fig. 16 **(a)**, a lower regeneration vacuum pressure im­
proves the productivity, resulting in lower capital cost and lower cost of
capture. Improvement in productivity is due to the reduction of the
desorption time (Fig. 16 **(b)** ), reducing the cycle time. It is relevant to
note that the vacuum pump equipment’s cost in APEA depends solely on
the gas flowrate (which is dependent on vacuum pressure, affecting the
gas density) and there is no direct dependency on the vacuum pressure
for the vacuum technology.

Also, lower regeneration vacuum pressure logically results in higher
vacuum pump work (Fig. 16 **(b)** ), because of the higher pressure ratio (2,
3.3 and 10 for vacuum pressure of 0.5 bar, 0.3 bar and 0.1 bar,
respectively) and the lower vacuum pump efficiency (0.73, 0.68 and
0.53 for vacuum pressure of 0.5 bar, 0.3 bar and 0.1 bar, respectively).
Taking the CO2 capture cost as the main key performance indicator, this
preliminary sensitivity analysis suggests a minimum vacuum pressure.


_3.2.4._ _Desorption criterion and regeneration temperature_

As shown in Fig. 5 **(b)**, the desorption (S-VTSA, step n [◦] 5 in Table 4) of
CO2 is nonlinear, the first half of the CO2 desorbs much faster than the



**Fig. 14.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) H2O production and heat requirement as a function of air relative humidity for monolith.


16


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 15.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, (b) energies requirements and (c) adsorption time and CO2 working capacity as a function of adsorption criterion
for monolith.


**Fig. 16.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) desorption time and vacuum work as a function of the regeneration vacuum pressure for monolith.


17


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



second half. First, the desorption criterion is varied from 0.1 molCO2/kg
(reference case) to 0.8 molCO2/kg to evaluate this criterion on perfor­
mance. The desorption criterion is the CO2 loading at the end of the SVTSA phase (step n [◦] 5). Even if this type of criterion is not possible in
practice and would instead be defined by the step duration, it remains
relevant for a simulation study. Higher desorption criterion benefits
from higher productivity and lower cost of capture (Fig. 17 **(a)** ), because
of shorter cycle time (Fig. 17 **(b)** ), except when the criterion becomes too
high (0.8 mol/kg) which results in a lower productivity. There is indeed
a trade-off between cycle time and CO2 produced per cycle ( _mCO_ 2 _,c_ ).
There is an optimum (on productivity or cost) somewhere between the
range from 0.1 to 0.8 mol/kg. From an energetic perspective, a lower
desorption criterion results in a lower heat requirement (Fig. 17 **(b)** ).

The regeneration temperature is varied from 80 to 100 [◦] C (Fig. 18).
The desorption criterion is chosen to 0.5 molCO2/kg, because at 90 [◦] C
and 80 [◦] C the desorption is slower at these regeneration temperatures.
As can be seen in Fig. 18, the productivity is higher for higher temper­
ature because of the shorter desorption time, resulting in lower cost of
capture. From an energetic perspective (Fig. 19), higher temperature
leads to higher heat requirement because of the need to heat the
monolith (i.e. sensible heat), but also leads to lower vacuum pump work
because of shorter desorption time (i.e. lower quantity of injected steam
should be processed by the vacuum pump).

In summary, higher regeneration temperature results in higher pro­
ductivity, while an optimum can be found for minimum energy
requirement.


_3.2.5._ _Regeneration steam flowrate_

The regeneration steam flowrate was multiplied by a factor of 2 and
20 compared to the reference case. Higher flowrate allows a gain on
productivity because of faster desorption and so a reduction on the cost
of capture (Fig. 20 **(a)** ). From an energetic perspective, a higher steam
flowrate results in higher vacuum work and primary energy requirement
because of the higher flowrate to be treated by the vacuum pump
(Fig. 20 **(b)** ). The steam heat difference is low ( _<_ 1 GJ/tCO2) compared
to vacuum work difference. A trade-off exists between productivity (&
cost) and energy when the regeneration steam flowrate varies.



_3.2.6._ _Mass transfer coefficient_

As seen in previous studies, the characteristic time of mass transfer of
CO2 from bulk gas to adsorption sites has an influence on the produc­
tivity and so on the cost of capture. The value of the mass transfer co­
efficient _MTC_ with the LDF model in the case of packed bed has been
extracted from experimental breakthrough curves (Section 2 of the



Supplementary Materials), whereas this is not the case for the monolith,
for which experimental data are not available to our knowledge. It
therefore seems appropriate to vary the value of the _MTC_ within a
representative range in order to see its influence on the performance of
the monolith. The mass transfer coefficient _MTC_ is low in the case of
monolith in the reference case (i.e. coating of 300 μm), in the order of
magnitude of 1 × 10 [–][4 ] s [-1] . The aim here is to understand the influence of
having a higher mass transfer coefficient _MTC_ on the performance for a
monolith. The _MTC_ was multiplied by a factor _β_ of 1 (reference case), 10
and 100. As seen in Fig. 21, a higher _MTC_ improves the productivity and
reduces the cost of capture and the energy requirement. This is mainly
due to a higher fractional loading _q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ [when the adsorption ]

criteria is met at the end of the adsorption phase ( _C_ _[out]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][C]_ _CO_ _[in]_ 2 [=] [50%). ]
The difference in results reduces for the improvement of _β_ from 10 to
100, because of already fractional loading close to 1 at _β_ = 10.

The improvement in performance with higher _MTC_ seems to appear
limited but in association with other process parameter modification,
the performance would be enhanced further. Indeed, higher _MTC_ re­
duces the characteristic time of mass transfer of CO2 from bulk gas to
adsorption sites. So, this allows to use a higher superficial velocity, a
smaller adsorption criterion and a bigger coating thickness in order to
improve the productivity.


_3.3._ _Discussion and perspectives_


The sensitivity analysis detailed in the previous section clearly shows
that the cost of DAC carbon capture and the associated energy require­
ment are sensitive to the design choices, modeling assumptions, process
parameters and ambient conditions. Finding a global optimum solution
based on productivity, cost of capture or energy requirement is chal­
lenging, since any optimization is very sensitive to the assumptions used
in the model and goes beyond the previous ‘one-at-a-time’ sensitivity
analysis that provides only a preliminary view of each parameter’s in­
fluence. Further work on optimization with larger number and ranges of
simulated points would be beneficial. Moreover, the optimal set of ge­
ometry and operating conditions strongly depends on inlet air temper­
ature and humidity (i.e., local weather and seasonal variations).

In packed bed, a lower air velocity and a smaller bed height reduce
the energy requirements, but lower air velocity also reduces produc­
tivity, which raises capture costs. A larger pellet radius leads to both a
lower energetic requirement and lower cost of capture, because of the
high gain on pressure drop and therefore specific OPEX. However, the
pressure drop remains high (≥ 6 kPa) for all the pellet radius studied in
case of a bed height of 0.5 m and a superficial velocity of 1 m/s.



**Fig. 17.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) cycle time and heat requirement as a function of the desorption criterion for monolith.


18


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 18.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) desorption time and cycle time as a function of the regeneration temperature with a desorption criterion of
0.5 molCO2/kg for monolith.



**Fig. 19.** Distribution of primary energy requirement for monolith, depending
on the regeneration temperature.


**Table S5** of Section 7 of the Supplementary Materials presents the
main qualitative effects on performance of each studied parameters in
the sensitivity analysis, which are discussed below. The results are
presented only for the monolith design, due to large pressure drop
generated by packed bed that reduces the interest of such design in the
large development of DAC.

In case of monolith, productivity has a larger effect on capture cost
due to the design’s greater capital intensity. This analysis can guide
design or operational parameters for future research on monolith
development. Higher superficial velocity and lower bed height are
favorable from an energetic perspective and because of higher produc­
tivity. The improvement of the superficial velocity is limited by the mass
transfer kinetics from bulk gas to adsorption sites: the CO2 should indeed
be adsorbed before exiting the bed. Moreover, at higher superficial ve­
locity (e.g., 2 m/s), the pressure drop and associated fan work become
more important even for monolith design (i.e., about 1 kPa and 1 MWh/
tCO2 at 2 m/s). A thinner adsorbent coating increases the mass transfer
coefficient, leading to higher productivity and lower cost of capture. The
heat requirement is also higher for smaller coating because of the



sensible heat of the support monolith (i.e. the quantity of CO2 captured
is smaller for smaller coating, but the same amount of support material
must be heated because of constant support material thickness).

Relatively cold and more humid air conditions are favorable to
improve the productivity and reduce the cost of capture because of
higher CO2 uptake of sorbent at low temperature and in presence of
humidity.

With respect to adsorption and desorption criteria, lower regenera­
tion vacuum pressure allows a reduction in the desorption time, leading
to higher productivity. The influence on vacuum pump work remains
limited even at a vacuum pressure of 0.1 bar ( _<_ 1 MWh/tCO2).

Conversely, lower desorption temperature generates a longer
desorption time, lower productivity, and higher cost of capture. From an
energetic perspective, the vacuum work is higher due to longer
desorption, but the heat required is lower for lower temperature.

Higher steam flowrate allows lower desorption, higher productivity,
and lower cost of capture, but has a negative influence on the vacuum
work because of the bigger amount of steam to process.

The mass transfer coefficient in the linear driving force model has a
major influence on adsorption kinetics and therefore on productivity.
Literature data exist for Lewatit kinetics near 40 Pa in both dry and
humid conditions for the granular form, yet no data are available for a
monolithic form of Lewatit, which remains hypothetical. Furthermore,
the model used to describe the mass transfer coefficient leads to values
that highly depend on the correlations chosen (Patton et al., 2004;
Rezaei and Webley, 2009). The aim of the MTC variation study is to
cover a wider range of kinetics and see their effect on performance.
Thus, a higher MTC results in a better sorbent occupancy rate, increasing
productivity and reducing energy consumption and capture costs.
Furthermore, an adsorbent with fast mass transfer kinetics would enable
other parameters to be modified (i.e. increased air surface velocity,
lower adsorption criterion, thicker coating) to increase productivity and
thus reduce capture cost. Experimental data on the kinetics of adsor­
bents such as Lewatit in monolithic form would help to strengthen the
models and implementation possibilities. The monolithic design needs
high heat requirements, particularly for support heating between
ambient and desorption temperatures. This highlights the importance of
further thermal integration by exploiting heat flows (i.e. adsorber
output, CPU compressor output) to reduce the net heat requirement. For
example, mechanical vapor compression may be a viable solution for
heat integration in DAC technologies (Holmes et al., 2024).

Finally, although this study adopts a squared-channel monolith
coated with amine sorbent for simplicity, other shapes (e.g., laminates,



19


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_


**Fig. 20.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) primary energy requirement and vacuum pump work as a function of the steam flowrate for monolith.


**Fig. 21.** (a) CO2 productivity and cost of capture, and (b) primary energy requirement and fractional loading _q_ _[max]_ _CO_ 2 _[/][q]_ [*] _CO_ 2 _,_ _amb_ [as a function of the ] [β ] [coefficient ]

for monolith.



foams, or extruded monoliths) may offer distinct advantages in density,
mass transfer, or mechanical strength.


**4.** **Conclusion**


Simulations, using the commercial software Aspen Adsorption, were
performed to evaluate the performance of DAC adsorption process with
amine sorbent. Lewatit was chosen as sorbent because of the availability
in literature of physico-chemical data in DAC conditions (ambient
temperature and humidity and low CO2 partial pressure). The CO2 and
H2O co-adsorption isotherms were fitted using literature data and in­
tegrated with others physico-chemical parameters in an adsorptiondesorption model. However, the modeling assumptions may not fully
capture the complexity of DAC real-world conditions. Further experi­
mental research is needed to validate the model’s predictions under
varied environmental and regeneration conditions (temperature, and
presence of O2 and H2O), long-term operation and cycling.

A detailed mass and energy balance was developed for a reference
case of the solid-DAC in two different designs: packed bed and monolith.
The cost of capture was evaluated using APEA commercial software for
both designs for an initial deployment at capture scale of 100 ktCO2/yr.



In the reference case, a high cost of capture (around 2000 €/tCO2) has
been evaluated for both designs, which belong to the high range of the
estimation for DAC: 2102 €/tCO2 for packed bed and 2090 €/tCO2 for
monolith (Sievert et al., 2024; Valentine et al., 2022b; Young et al.,
2023). These initial costs could fall significantly if the sector undergoes
substantial development and benefits from economies of scale, as well as
improvements to materials and processes. Packed bed exhibits higher
productivity (2.4 kgCO2/(h.m [3] )) than the monolith (1.2 kgCO2/(h.m [3] )).
This difference in productivity shows a difference in the specific CAPEX:
675 €/tCO2 for packed bed versus 1049 €/tCO2 for the monolith. The
adsorber module account for the largest part of the CAPEX ( _>_ 75%) for
both designs. Packed bed shows high pressure drop with a large fan work
(13.2 MWh/tCO2) compared to monolith (0.4 MWh/tCO2), resulting in a
difference in the specific OPEX: 1427 €/tCO2 for packed bed and 1041
€/tCO2 for monolith. Monolithic design, which greatly reduces pressure
drop, remains hypothetical and is not commercially available at present.
However, the development of structured materials for CO2 capture is an
active area of research, suggesting that commercial development may be
possible in the near future (Grossmann et al., 2023; Soukri et al., 2024;
Stampi-Bombelli et al., 2024; Stampi-Bombelli and Mazzotti, 2024).

A systematic sensitivity analysis was performed on bed dimension,



20


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



air velocity, pellet radius, adsorbent coating thickness, air temperature,
air humidity, regeneration pressure and temperature, adsorption/
desorption loading and mass transfer coefficient. The strong interplay
between the different design and operating variables complicates the
analysis. In terms of guidelines, the trade-off between CAPEX (domi­
nating monoliths) and OPEX (dominating packed beds) should be
considered for future research developments. Future work on the
monolith should focus on developing low-cost adsorber technologies.
Meanwhile, solutions that minimize pressure drop for packed beds
should be investigated. All in all, the minimal cost of capture identified
through the set of simulations is 1680 €/tCO2, obtained with bigger
pellets in packed bed and 1690 €/tCO2 obtained with lower regeneration
vacuum pressure for monolith. The evaluated capture costs remain high,
underscoring the need for further optimization and material innovation.
It is expected that the outcome of this comparative study will stimulate
technical and economic analyses systematically based on CO2/H2O coadsorption equilibrium data, in order to better evaluate the perfor­
mances and limitations of DAC processes.


**Funding**


This research did not receive any specific grant from funding
agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.


**CRediT authorship contribution statement**


**Paul de Joannis:** Writing  - review & editing, Writing  - original
draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation,
Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. **Christophe Castel:**
Writing – review & editing, Validation, Supervision, Resources, Project
administration, Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition,
Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. **Mohamed Kan­**
**niche:** Writing - review & editing, Software, Formal analysis. **Eric**
**Favre:** Writing - review & editing, Validation, Methodology, Investi­
gation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. **Olivier Authier:** Writing –
review & editing, Validation, Supervision, Software, Resources, Project
administration, Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition,
Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization.


**Declaration of competing interest**


The authors declare that they have no known competing financial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence
the work reported in this paper.


**Supplementary materials**


Supplementary material associated with this article can be found, in
[the online version, at doi:10.1016/j.ccst.2025.100518.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccst.2025.100518)


**References**


AACE, 2020. 18R-97: cost estimate classification system–as applied in engineering,
procurement, and construction for the process industries.
Abdullatif, Y., Sodiq, A., Mir, N., Bicer, Y., Al-Ansari, T., El-Naas, M.H., Amhamed, A.I.,
2023. Emerging trends in direct air capture of CO2: a review of technology options
[targeting net-zero emissions. RSC Adv. 13, 5687–5722. https://doi.org/10.1039/](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2RA07940B)
[D2RA07940B.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2RA07940B)
Ahmed, S., Hewson, C., Sun, L., Iacomi, P., 2024. Realistically evaluating the capabilities
of Zeolite 13X as a sorbent for direct air capture in different scales.
Akhtar, F., Kaiser, A., 2024. Design and structuring of porous sorbents for CO2 capture
[and separation. Curr. Opin. Green Sustain. Chem. 50, 100966. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogsc.2024.100966)
[10.1016/j.cogsc.2024.100966.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogsc.2024.100966)
Alesi, W.R., Kitchin, J.R., 2012. Evaluation of a primary amine-functionalized ionexchange resin for CO2 [capture. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 51, 6907–6915. https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ie300452c)
[org/10.1021/ie300452c.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ie300452c)
[Aspentech, 2022. Aspen Icarus Reference Guide V14. Aspentech.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0006)
[Aspentech, 1999. Aspen ADSIM 10.1 Casebook. Aspentech.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0007)



Bisotti, F., Hoff, K.A., Mathisen, A., Hovland, J., 2024. Direct air capture (DAC)
deployment: a review of the industrial deployment. Chem. Eng. Sci. 283, 119416.
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.119416.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.119416)
Bloch, C., Kahsar, R., Newcomb, J., Wohl, G., Hanson, E., 2022. Scoping the potential
need for direct air capture.
Born, M.H.B., Denayer, J.F.M., Van Assche, T.R.C., 2024. High capacity laminate
adsorbers: enhancing separation performance beyond packed beds. Chem. Eng. J.
[488, 150627. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150627.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150627)
Bos, M.J., Kreuger, T., Kersten, S.R.A., Brilman, D.W.F., 2019. Study on transport
phenomena and intrinsic kinetics for CO2 adsorption in solid amine sorbent. Chem.
[Eng. J. 377, 120374. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.11.072.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.11.072)
[Castel, C., Bounaceur, R., Favre, E., 2021. Membrane processes for direct carbon dioxide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0012)
[capture from air: possibilities and limitations. Front. Chem. Eng. 3.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0012)
Chevrel, C., de Joannis, P., Castel, C., Authier, O., 2025. Modeling of CO2 capture by
electro-swing reactive adsorption from low-concentration streams. Clean Technol. 7,
[18. https://doi.org/10.3390/cleantechnol7010018.](https://doi.org/10.3390/cleantechnol7010018)
Chimani, F.M., Bhandari, A.A., Wallmüller, A., Schony, G., Müller, S., Fuchs, J., 2024. ¨
Evaluation of CO2/H2O Co-adsorption models for the Anion exchange Resin Lewatit
VPOC 1065 under direct air capture conditions using a novel lab setup. Separations
[11, 160. https://doi.org/10.3390/separations11060160.](https://doi.org/10.3390/separations11060160)
Chuah, C.Y., Ho, Y.L., Syed, A.M.H., Thivyalakshmi, K.G.K., Yang, E., Johari, K.,
Yang, Y., Poon, W.C., 2025. Applicability of adsorbents in direct air capture (DAC):
recent progress and future perspectives. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 64, 4117–4147.
[https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c03265.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c03265)
Climeworks, 2024. The Reality of Deploying Direct Air Capture in the Field. Climeworks.

[https://climeworks.com/news/the-reality-of-deploying-direct-air-capture-in-the-fie](https://climeworks.com/news/the-reality-of-deploying-direct-air-capture-in-the-field)
[ld.](https://climeworks.com/news/the-reality-of-deploying-direct-air-capture-in-the-field)
Crittenden, B.D., Camus, O., Perera, S.P., Mays, T.J., S´anchez-Liarte, F., Tennison, S.R.,
Crezee, E., 2011. Nonuniform channels in adsorbent monoliths. AIChE J. 57,
[1163–1172. https://doi.org/10.1002/aic.12335.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aic.12335)
de Joannis, P., Castel, C., Kanniche, M., Favre, E., Authier, O., 2025. Direct air capture by
monoethanolamine absorption with heat pump enhancements. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.
[https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c02033.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c02033)
De Temmerman, G., de Rochette, F., 2023. Reports–the CDR series: direct air capture.
Deschamps, T., Kanniche, M., Grandjean, L., Authier, O., 2022. Modeling of vacuum
temperature swing adsorption for direct air capture using Aspen adsorption. Clean
[Technol. 4, 258–275. https://doi.org/10.3390/cleantechnol4020015.](https://doi.org/10.3390/cleantechnol4020015)
Deutz, S., Bardow, A., 2021. Life-cycle assessment of an industrial direct air capture
process based on temperature–vacuum swing adsorption. Nat. Energy 6, 203–213.
[https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-020-00771-9.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-020-00771-9)
Driessen, R.T., Bos, M.J., Brilman, D.W.F., 2018. A multistage fluidized bed for the deep
removal of sour gases: proof of concept and tray efficiencies. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.
[57, 3866–3875. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.7b04891.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.7b04891)
Driessen, R.T., Knaken, B., Buzink, T., Jacobs, D.A.F., Hrstka, J., Brilman, D.W.F., 2020.
Design and proof of concept of a continuous pressurized multi-stage fluidized bed
setup for deep sour gas removal using adsorption. Powder Technol. 366, 859–872.
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2020.03.013.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2020.03.013)
Energy Transitions Commission, 2022. Carbon capture, utilisation & storage in the
energy transition: vital but limited.
European Commission, 2021. Communication de la commisssion: des cycles du carbone
durables.
European Environment Agency, 2025. Greenhouse gas emission intensity of electricity
generation in Europe.
Fasihi, M., Efimova, O., Breyer, C., 2019. Techno-economic assessment of CO2 direct air
[capture plants. J. Clean. Prod. 224, 957–980. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.086)
[jclepro.2019.03.086.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.086)
Franco, F., Bolland, O., Booth, N., Dorst, E.van, Ekstrom, C., Fernandes, E.S.,
Anantharaman, R., Macchi, E., Manzolini, G., Nikolic, D., Pfeffer, A., Prins, M.,
Rezvani, S., Robinson, L., 2011. European best practice guidelines for assessment of
CO2 capture technologies.
[Froment, G.F., Bischoff, K.B., De Wilde, J., 2011. Chemical Reactor Analysis and Design,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0029)
[3rd ed. Wiley, Hoboken, NJ.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0029)
Gebald, C., 2014. Development of amine-functionalized adsorbent for carbon dioxide
[capture from atmospheric air (Doctoral Thesis). ETH Zurich. 10.3929/ethz-a-010171](https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-a-010171623)
[623.](https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-a-010171623)
Gebald, C., Wurzbacher, J.A., Borgschulte, A., Zimmermann, T., Steinfeld, A., 2014.
Single-component and binary CO2 and H2O adsorption of amine-functionalized
[cellulose. Environ. Sci. Technol. 48, 2497–2504. https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/es404430g)
[es404430g.](https://doi.org/10.1021/es404430g)
Gicquel, R., 2017. Mod´eliser et simuler les technologies ´energ´etiques.
Grimm, A., Kramer, G.J., Gazzani, M., 2024. How would ideal sorbents improve the
technical and economic performance of adsorption-based direct air capture? Energy
[Fuels 38, 18781–18799. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.4c01156.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.4c01156)
Grossmann, Q., Mazzotti, M., 2025. Mass transfer of CO2 in amine-functionalized
[structured contactors in ultra-dilute conditions. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c04099)
[org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c04099.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c04099)
Grossmann, Q., Stampi-Bombelli, V., Mazzotti, M., 2021. Molecular to process scale: a
review of holistic direct air capture contactor design.
Grossmann, Q., Stampi-Bombelli, V., Yakimov, A., Docherty, S., Cop´eret, C.,
Mazzotti, M., 2023. Developing versatile contactors for direct air capture of CO2
through amine grafting onto alumina pellets and alumina wash-coated monoliths.
[Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 62, 13594–13611. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01265.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c01265)
Hart, P.W., Sommerfeld, J.T., 1997. Cost estimation of specialty chemicals from
laboratory-scale prices 39.



21


_P. de Joannis et al.                                                                                                               Carbon_ _Capture_ _Science_ _&_ _Technology_ _17_ _(2025)_ _100518_



Hemmatifar, A., Kang, J.S., Ozbek, N., Tan, K., Hatton, T.A., 2022. Electrochemically
mediated direct CO2 capture by a stackable bipolar cell. ChemSusChem 15,
[e202102533. https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202102533.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202102533)
Holmes, H.E., Realff, M.J., Lively, R.P., 2024. Water management and heat integration in
[direct air capture systems. Nat. Chem. Eng. 1, 208–215. https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/s44286-024-00032-6)
[s44286-024-00032-6.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s44286-024-00032-6)
International Energy Agency, 2022. Direct Air Capture: A Key Technology for Net Zero.
[OECD. https://doi.org/10.1787/bbd20707-en.](https://doi.org/10.1787/bbd20707-en)
International Energy Agency, 2020. Net zero emissions by 2050 scenario (NZE)–global
energy and climate model–analysis.
Jones, A., 2023. Direct air capture using novel structured adsorbents.
Kast, W., 1981. Adsorption aus der gasphase–grundlagen und verfahren. Chem. Ing.
[Tech. 53, 160–172. https://doi.org/10.1002/cite.330530304.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cite.330530304)
Keith, D.W., Holmes, G., St. Angelo, D., Heidel, K., 2018. A process for capturing CO2
[from the atmosphere. Joule 2, 1573–1594. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.05.006)
[joule.2018.05.006.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.05.006)
[Kiani, A., Jiang, K., Feron, P., 2020. Techno-economic assessment for CO2 capture from](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0045)
[air using a conventional liquid-based absorption process. Front. Energy Res. 8.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0045)
Kiani, A., Lejeune, M., Li, C., Patel, J., Feron, P., 2021. Liquefied synthetic methane from
ambient CO2 and renewable H2–a technoeconomic study. J. Nat. Gas Sci. Eng. 94,
[104079. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jngse.2021.104079.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jngse.2021.104079)
[Lackner, K., Ziock, H.J., Grimes, P., 1999. Carbon Dioxide Extraction from Air: Is It An](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0047)
[Option? Los Alamos National Lab. (LANL), Los Alamos, NM (United States).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2772-6568(25)00155-1/sbref0047)
Lanxess, 2023. Product information Lewatit® VP OC 1065.
Leitner, J., Vonka, P., Sedmidubský, D., Svoboda, P., 2010. Application of ˇ
Neumann–Kopp rule for the estimation of heat capacity of mixed oxides.
[Thermochim. Acta 497, 7–13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tca.2009.08.002.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tca.2009.08.002)
(Ashlyn) Low, M.Y., Barton, L., Pini, R., Petit, C., 2022. Analytical review of the current
state of knowledge of adsorption materials and processes for direct air capture.
[Chem. Eng. Res. Des. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2022.11.040.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2022.11.040)
(Ashlyn) Low, M.Y., Danaci, D., Sturman, C., Petit, C., 2025. Quantification of
temperature-dependent CO2 adsorption kinetics in Lewatit VP OC 1065, Purolite
A110, and TIFSIX-3-Ni for direct air capture. Chem. Eng. Res. Des. 215, 443–452.
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2025.01.048.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2025.01.048)
Low, M.Y.A., Danaci, D., Azzan, H., Woodward, R.T., Petit, C., 2023. Measurement of
physicochemical properties and CO2, N2, Ar, O2, and H2O unary adsorption
isotherms of purolite A110 and lewatit VP OC 1065 for application in direct air
[capture. J. Chem. Eng. Data. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jced.3c00401.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jced.3c00401)
McQueen, N., Gomes, K.V., McCormick, C., Blumanthal, K., Pisciotta, M., Wilcox, J.,
2021. A review of direct air capture (DAC): scaling up commercial technologies and
[innovating for the future. Prog. Energy 3, 032001. https://doi.org/10.1088/2516-](https://doi.org/10.1088/2516-1083/abf1ce)
[1083/abf1ce.](https://doi.org/10.1088/2516-1083/abf1ce)
Membrane Technology and Research, 2018. Large pilot testing of the MTR membrane
post-combustion CO2 capture process.
Min, Y.J., Ganesan, A., Realff, M.J., Jones, C.W., 2022. Direct air capture of CO2 using
poly(ethyleneimine)-functionalized expanded poly(tetrafluoroethylene)/silica
composite structured sorbents. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14, 40992–41002.
[https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c11143.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c11143)
Min, Y.J., Kim, J., Jones, C.W., Realff, M.J., 2024. Model-based energy and cost analysis
of direct air capture using ePTFE-based laminate-structured gas–solid contactors.
[ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 12, 18522–18536. https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.4c05769)
[acssuschemeng.4c05769.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.4c05769)
Minist`ere de la Transition Ecologique et de la Coh [´] ´esion des Territoires, 2024.
R´eglementation environnementale RE2020.
Patton, A., Crittenden, B.D., Perera, S.P., 2004. Use of the linear driving force
approximation to guide the design of monolithic adsorbents. Chem. Eng. Res. Des.
[82, 999–1009. https://doi.org/10.1205/0263876041580749.](https://doi.org/10.1205/0263876041580749)
Peter, S., Kabelac, S., Kind, M., Martin, H., Mewes, D., Schaber, K., 2010. VDI Heat Atlas.
[Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-77877-6)
[77877-6.](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-77877-6)
Pour, S.E., Haghighat Mamaghani, A., Hashisho, Z., Crompton, D., Arellano, H.,
Anderson, J.E., 2024. Experimental and modeling study of volatile organic
compounds adsorption over zeolitic monolith adsorbent. Chem. Eng. J. 482, 148956.
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148956.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148956)
Qiu, L., Mokhtarinori, N., Liu, H., Jiang, D., Yang, Z., Dai, S., 2024. The carbon challenge:
design, synthesis, and chemisorption behavior of solid sorbents in direct air capture
[of carbon dioxide. Mater. Today Energy, 101740. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2024.101740)
[mtener.2024.101740.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2024.101740)
Rafael Teruo Maruyama, K.N.P., 2020. Improving the performance of vacuum swing
adsorption based CO2 capture under reduced recovery requirements.
Rezaei, F., Webley, P., 2010. Structured adsorbents in gas separation processes. Sep.
[Purif. Technol. 70, 243–256. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2009.10.004.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2009.10.004)
Rezaei, F., Webley, P., 2009. Optimum structured adsorbents for gas separation
[processes. Chem. Eng. Sci. 64, 5182–5191. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2009.08.029)
[ces.2009.08.029.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2009.08.029)
RTE, 2024. Bilan ´electrique 2023–rapport complet.
Rubin, E.S., Short, C., Booras, G., Davison, J., Ekstrom, C., Matuszewski, M., McCoy, S.,
2013. A proposed methodology for CO2 capture and storage cost estimates. Int. J.
[Greenh. Gas Control 17, 488–503. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2013.06.004.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2013.06.004)
Sabatino, F., Grimm, A., Gallucci, F., Van Sint Annaland, M., Kramer, G.J., Gazzani, M.,
2021. A comparative energy and costs assessment and optimization for direct air
[capture technologies. Joule 5, 2047–2076. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.05.023)
[joule.2021.05.023.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.05.023)
Schellevis, H.M., Brilman, D.W.F., 2024. Experimental study of CO2 capture from air via
steam-assisted temperature-vacuum swing adsorption with a compact kg-scale pilot



[unit. React. Chem. Eng. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3RE00460K, 10.1039.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3RE00460K)
D3RE00460K.
Schellevis, H.M., Van Schagen, T.N., Brilman, D.W.F., 2021. Process optimization of a
fixed bed reactor system for direct air capture. Int. J. Greenh. Gas Control 110,
[103431. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2021.103431.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2021.103431)
Schellevis, M., 2023. CO2 capture from air: a process engineering approach.
Schellevis, M., Jacobs, T., Brilman, W., 2020. CO2 Capture from air in a radial flow
[contactor: batch or continuous operation? Front. Chem. Eng. 2. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.3389/fceng.2020.596555)
[10.3389/fceng.2020.596555.](https://doi.org/10.3389/fceng.2020.596555)
Scott, G.D., Kilgour, D.M., 1969. The density of random close packing of spheres. J. Phys.
[D Appl. Phys. 2, 863–866. https://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/2/6/311.](https://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/2/6/311)
Sievert, K., Schmidt, T.S., Steffen, B., 2024. Considering technology characteristics to
[project future costs of direct air capture. Joule 8, 979–999. https://doi.org/10.1016/](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2024.02.005)
[j.joule.2024.02.005.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2024.02.005)
Sircar, S., Hufton, J.R., 2000. Why does the linear driving force model for adsorption
kinetics work? Adsorption.
Sonnleitner, E., Schony, G., Hofbauer, H., 2018. Assessment of zeolite 13X and Lewatit¨ ®
VP OC 1065 for application in a continuous temperature swing adsorption process
[for biogas upgrading. Biomass Convers. Bioref. 8, 379–395. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13399-017-0293-3)
[10.1007/s13399-017-0293-3.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13399-017-0293-3)
Soukri, M., Sitaula, P., Izenson, M.G., Phillips, S.D., 2024. Development of Advanced
Solid Sorbents for Direct Air Capture (No. DOE-RTI-32099-1). RTI International,
[Research Triangle Park, NC (United States). https://doi.org/10.2172/2382722.](https://doi.org/10.2172/2382722)
Stampi-Bombelli, V., Mazzotti, M., 2024. Exploring geometric properties and cycle
design in packed bed and monolith contactors using temperature-vacuum swing
adsorption modeling for direct air capture. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 63, 19728–19743.
[https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c02303.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c02303)
Stampi-Bombelli, V., Storione, A., Grossmann, Q., Mazzotti, M., 2024. On comparing
packed beds and monoliths for CO2 capture from air through experiments, theory,
[and modeling. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 63, 11637–11653. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c01392)
[iecr.4c01392.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.4c01392)
Sutanto, S., Dijkstra, J.W., Pieterse, J.A.Z., Boon, J., Hauwert, P., Brilman, D.W.F., 2017.
CO2 removal from biogas with supported amine sorbents: first technical evaluation
[based on experimental data. Sep. Purif. Technol. 184, 12–25. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2017.04.030)
[10.1016/j.seppur.2017.04.030.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2017.04.030)
Taylor, G., 1953. Dispersion of soluble matter in solvent flowing slowly through a tube.
[Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 219, 186–203. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspa.1953.0139.](https://doi.org/10.1098/rspa.1953.0139)
Tegeler, E., Cui, Y., Masoudi, M., Bahmanpour, A.M., Colbert, T., Hensel, J.,
Balakotaiah, V., 2023. A novel contactor for reducing the cost of direct air capture of
[CO2. Chem. Eng. Sci. 281, 119107. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.119107.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.119107)
Valentine, J., Zoelle, A., Homsy, S., Mantripragada, H., Kilstofte, A., Sturdivan, M.,
Steutermann, M., Fout, T., 2022a. Direct Air Capture Case Studies: Solvent System
(No. DOE/NETL-2021/2864). National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL),
[Pittsburgh, PA, Morgantown, WV, and Albany, OR (United States). https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.2172/1893369)
[10.2172/1893369.](https://doi.org/10.2172/1893369)
Valentine, J., Zoelle, A., Homsy, S., Mantripragada, H., Woods, M., Roy, N., Kilstofte, A.,
Sturdivan, M., Steutermann, M., Fout, T., 2022b. Direct air capture case studies:
[sorbent system (No. DOE/NETL-2021/2865, 1879535). 10.2172/1879535.](https://doi.org/10.2172/1879535)
Van Der Spek, M., Roussanaly, S., Rubin, E.S., 2019. Best practices and recent advances
in CCS cost engineering and economic analysis. Int. J. Greenh. Gas Control 83,
[91–104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2019.02.006.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2019.02.006)
Veneman, R., Frigka, N., Zhao, W., Li, Z., Kersten, S., Brilman, W., 2015. Adsorption of
H2O and CO2 on supported amine sorbents. Int. J. Greenh. Gas Control 41, 268–275.
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2015.07.014.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2015.07.014)
Voskian, S., Hatton, T.A., 2019. Faradaic electro-swing reactive adsorption for CO2
[capture. Energy Environ. Sci. 12, 3530–3547. https://doi.org/10.1039/](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE02412C)
[C9EE02412C.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE02412C)
Wakao, N., Funazkri, T., 1978. Effect of fluid dispersion coefficients on particle-to-fluid
mass transfer coefficients in packed beds: correlation of sherwood numbers. Chem.
[Eng. Sci. 33, 1375–1384. https://doi.org/10.1016/0009-2509(78)85120-3.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0009-2509(78)85120-3)
Wang, E., Navik, R., Miao, Y., Gao, Q., Izikowitz, D., Chen, L., Li, J., 2024. Reviewing
direct air capture startups and emerging technologies. Cell Rep. Phys. Sci., 101791
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2024.101791.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2024.101791)
Wang, Y., LeVan, M., 2010. Adsorption equilibrium of binary mixtures of carbon dioxide
[and water vapor on Zeolites 5A and 13X. J. Chem. Eng. Data 55. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1021/je100053g)
[10.1021/je100053g.](https://doi.org/10.1021/je100053g)
[Weitz, D.A., 2004. Packing in the spheres. Science 303, 968–969. https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1094581)
[10.1126/science.1094581.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1094581)
Wu, J., Zhu, X., Chen, Y., Wang, R., Ge, T., 2022. The analysis and evaluation of direct air
capture adsorbents on the material characterization level. Chem. Eng. J. 450,
[137958. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.137958.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.137958)
Wurzbacher, J.A., 2015. Development of a temperature-vacuum swing process for CO2
[capture from ambient air (Doctoral Thesis). ETH Zurich. 10.3929/ethz-a-01](https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-a-010432423)
[0432423.](https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-a-010432423)
Wurzbacher, J.A., Repond, N., Ruesch, T., Sauerbeck, S., Gebald, C., 2021. Low-pressure
drop structure of particle adsorbent bed for improved adsorption gas separation
process. US20190255480A1.
Young, J., García-Díez, E., Garcia, S., vanderSpek, M., 2021. The impact of binary
water–CO2 isotherm models on the optimal performance of sorbent-based direct air
[capture processes. Energy Environ. Sci. 14, 5377–5394. https://doi.org/10.1039/](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE01272J)
[D1EE01272J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE01272J)
Young, J., McQueen, N., Charalambous, C., Foteinis, S., Hawrot, O., Ojeda, M.,
Pilorg´e, H., Andresen, J., Psarras, P., Renforth, P., Garcia, S., VanderSpek, M., 2023.
The cost of direct air capture and storage can be reduced via strategic deployment
[but is unlikely to fall below stated cost targets. One Earth 6, 899–917. https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oneear.2023.06.004)
[org/10.1016/j.oneear.2023.06.004.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oneear.2023.06.004)



22


